yo
hey
good morning good afternoon good evening
no matter where you're coming from hope
you all are doing
well
what's going on everybody good to see
you on a sunday for a lovely
super review
what's going on everybody
dang i missed it now no worries no
worries
finally catching a live stream on sunday
hey
there you go after doing half of the
vods that's awesome welcome glad you're
able to join us live
took saturday off back to the grindstone
a
glad you're here
super hyped me too rascal me too
what's going on everybody
how are you doing today leon do you feel
ready for this i feel ready for this
yeah i feel ready
i'm excited i always really like these
reviews taking some time to go back to
html css javascript to make sure things
are maybe clicking a little bit more
making a little bit more sense
and taking our time with it today today
is a day where we can spend time
answering questions
digging a little bit uh
spending a little bit more time on
things than we normally would and so
we're going to spend a lot of time today
going through html then going through
css and then going through all the basic
javascript that we've covered so far so
if you are new
this is a great kind of class to dip
your toes into the water if you've been
here uh since the beginning it's a good
chance to get that space repetition in
maybe clear up some things that weren't
fully making sense so there's a lot on
the table for no matter where you're
coming from this experience so we're
going to talk about that we're going to
talk about kind of all the goodness we
can get into uh i did do a check-in
today we don't normally do check-ins on
on our sunday sessions but since we're
doing a review and there are a lot of
folks that might have joined a hundred
devs late i want to make sure they see
it so if you want you could do
exclamation point check in
the differences i've been here since
last cohort hey turn up
uh that link is also always of course in
the following materials channel
or if you're just following me on
twitter you always see the link as well
there you go
all right folks
if you haven't already go ahead and give
me a check in just so that other folks
can see that we're doing the review now
today is
like i said review
and it is for both sets of folks new and
returning the thing i will say is that
if you were brand new like if this is
like your first 100 devs experience or
maybe you've caught some of the vods but
today's your first like day live in
class what you're going to notice is
that we're going to go through some
stuff
fast we're going to take our time to
explain things but you got to realize
that we've done
up to this point about a dozen classes
on this material and then we had some
other classes like um
like our mini kind of project nights and
our networking nights so there are about
a dozen classes that cover the stuff
that we're about to cover in this
session so don't don't get down on
yourself if everything doesn't click
today if you're new
that just means that maybe keep a list
of the things that gave you trouble and
you can backfill those through the the
vods that are on youtube all of our
classes always wind up on youtube you
can always go back and watch them
ad free
cool so
i wanted to put that out there that hey
you know what give yourself a little bit
of grace a little bit of breathing room
if things if it's your first time things
will click they'll get there as we go on
if you've been around for a while use
this a chance to ask a lot of questions
i'll be keeping tabs on chat and then we
also have our slido like normal you can
do exclamation point ask if you want to
throw some questions into that slido but
as we go along
we'll be answering our questions we'll
be taking your time through each of the
material and we'll take our we'll take
the day to get through it all
no idea how long this class will go for
no idea it goes as long as we need it to
go those folks have questions we're
going to keep answering questions if
when you take a little bit a little bit
longer on the css take a little bit
longer on the css that's it
cool
alrighty
let's get into it
like i said we're covering html
fundamentals css fundamentals
javascript fundamentals and then more
review
i would like to start off with questions
and the question of the day
is what do you want to review the most
do you want to review html css or
javascript the most let me see you put
css html or javascript
okay
team css is the winner here well a lot
of javascript too
everything
all right
css and javascript it is done
cool
all right we'll focus on we'll get
through our html a little bit faster
we'll slow down at the css and we'll go
deep in the javascript today
thank you thank you thank you
all right we have some other questions
here too uh i like to use the slido
i like to use the slido early on
um let's just give folks a few seconds
to get in here and let me answer some of
these top questions in slido before we
jump into our review today
all right
for the socially awkward among us
what advice do you have for those of us
who are getting through the homework
fine
except for the networking part so if you
all are following along with 100 devs
you'll realize that this is not really a
coding program it's a jobs program and
so we put heavy emphasis on networking
working with others and building
projects that help us get a job right
and so
that networking piece is often the
hardest part of this experience
for some folks it's not the coding part
that's the hardest it's the actual
networking meeting folks and then
locking down referrals to jobs one of
the most common things especially if
you're new is that you'll see folks that
say i applied to 200 300 jobs and i
didn't get it i didn't even get an
interview well that's because they
applied wrong
we never ever click apply we network our
way into jobs we make sure our resume is
in the hands of a living breathing human
being and we spend
the entire time we're learning also
networking so when we are ready to apply
we have dozens if not hundreds of people
we can go back to and say hey i noticed
you have an opening at your job can you
get me in touch with the person that's
actually hiring that strategy is leaps
and bounds more practical and more
useful than you will ever get out of
grinding leak code that you'll ever get
out of even grinding projects which is
what or even just applying so that
networking piece is super important now
i think when a lot of people think about
networking and we first talk about it
they they they have this idea that they
have to be like at meetups talking to
people no
you have to find what's comfortable for
you and that's different for every
single person some folks will never go
to a meetup but they will have
better
they will have a better network by the
end than folks that are always going to
like in-person events or things like
that because you can network just as
effectively via text you can be in slack
channels discords irc communities you
can be on twitter you can be in these
places that don't require you to be on
the spot on demand maybe a little bit
more asynchronous to where you don't
feel the pressure of having to respond
in the moment there are plenty of places
to build connections that don't have to
be just like face to face right and so
there's a lot of things that you can do
but you have to find what works for you
and so
when folks tell me that they're having
trouble networking yeah i think there's
a lot of things that can come up there
but one of the things i i really try to
push folks is to to not just try one way
to try a bunch of different ways and
maybe half of them were just absolutely
horrible experiences you never want to
do them again but maybe you find that
one thing that really does work for you
so trying different avenues in our
networking class we just we talked about
a lot of different places to find people
go back to that class make sure you try
all those and then the other thing that
can be really helpful is uh buddy system
right
make sure if you know that you're having
some trouble grab a buddy right somebody
from the 100 devs community
maybe you're in a specific study
community or maybe you just posted in
one of the 100 dev channels on discord
and just say or maybe we'll create a
thread for this later um but if you're
having trouble networking it's way
easier with a buddy where you both kind
of agree that you're going to help carry
conversation right
they're both going to help carry
conversation
and that can be a little bit less
stressful and a little bit more easy to
kind of meet a new person and then you
both kind of get a connection at a time
and so i don't recommend bigger groups
but pairs can be often very very helpful
so
buddy up
uh and then try many many different ways
to network it doesn't have to be like
face to face or on zoom or anything like
that it can be text based as well
cool i remember the point of this is to
find folks that are already in tech so
things like a megel somebody asked uh it
could maybe be fun but it'd be hard to
find folks that are already in tech
already engineers is what you're really
aiming for
yeah
cool
how long after this cohort is finished
will discord channel still be available
it ain't ever going away what are you
talking about that's here to stay
yeah discord will always be available
can we go over m etc and css yeah we're
going to get that stuff today no worries
all right let's do two more of these
uh let's do two more of these and then
we'll jump into starting our review just
wanted to give folks a few seconds to
get in here yeah
will this session be on youtube later
i'm not sure i'm not sure the vods are
always available on twitch so the vod
will be here for at least 60 days on
twitch but i don't know i i kind of like
giving folks the incentive to show up on
sundays
also we spend more time
we spend more time talking and giving
like answers to stuff so
we'll see
that's how many people we have at the
end
how many people we got here now let's
see
oh here we go boom
all right
we're at almost 2 000 right now we're
still at 1 500 at the end i'll put it on
youtube
alrighty
uh what went into the 50k client
i can't even wrap my mind around what
happened what kind of timeline and
deliverables they had
all right
so
that 50k client was for
for a conference and so they built an
app for the conference so it was a full
stack web application and it wound up
being 70k
i don't know if nia is here right now
but yeah they shared that with us um so
yeah it was it wasn't like something
that was quick it took a while to build
it was a full full full stack web
application um for a conference
all right one more and we're going to
get into it
um well actually too can you go over the
css layout trick with flexbox yeah we're
going to go over flexbox today so we're
gonna do three simple layouts and then
we're gonna do three simple layouts with
flexbox uh just to kind of show that the
two different ways of doing things so
we'll see a little bit of flexbox today
and we'll see a little bit of layout
with floats today too
and last one before we kind of jump into
things today folks why are we supposed
to be labeling ourselves
hey stephanie thank you for the thousand
bits i appreciate that
thanks for being here why are we
supposed to be labeling ourselves full
stack engineers we don't know any
back-end right now because it takes a
while for your profiles to simmer
right it takes a while for you to start
ranking in google and for all your
profiles to to kind of boil up to the
top right
and so if you want your stuff to be
picked up by recruiters
by bots things like that you can't just
the day you learned node put full stack
and then expect it to be kind of picked
up by all the filters so we do it now so
that your profiles can simmer and by the
time you're actually interviewing uh you
have kind of
you you've kind of been around long
enough for that stuff to get picked up
yeah
the other thing too is that like you're
not actually interviewing yet so it
doesn't matter what you call yourself
because you're not running into anyone
that like
it would be a problem right so give your
profiles a chance to simmer and then in
a month or so when we're at the back end
you'll be ready to go
when we start looking for jobs once we
get through the back end yeah once we
get through back end is when we start
focusing on that
cool
alrighty folks let's get into it
a lot of fun stuff to get in today
uh but we're going to start off at the
beginning
cool
so
if you're new around these parts or if
you've been around these parts we have a
few kind of really important things that
we did at the beginning
and one of the most important things we
did at the beginning is we went through
a coursera course called learning how to
learn
by dr barbara oakley and so this course
kind of lays well lays the foundations
for how
people learn and so if you are trying to
learn how to code if you're trying to
learn html css and javascript you owe it
to yourself to develop effective study
habits
guaranteed most of us do not have
effective study habits most of us have
gone through traditional schooling
without good habits and it was maybe
some of the reasons why
certain subjects didn't come easy or
certain subjects were very difficult for
you and so
starting off and laying your foundation
with learning how to learn right
will help you set up the rest of your
time learning how to code do not sync
hundreds of hours and trying to learn
how to code thousands of hours and
trying to learn how to code but not
actually having good study habits you'll
just be beating your head against the
desk over and over again you'll be
you'll be taking up more
uh more and more time than you need and
so
just um
make sure that you're putting time into
that before you put time into anything
else deez hey thank you for the thousand
bits i appreciate you thanks for being
here right so
one of the very key things that we also
did in the beginning was we watched two
videos by ali abdal
and one of those videos was active
recall
right and then something called spaced
repetition
if you listen to nothing else today like
if you just go off on the rest of your
rest of your life without ever coming
back to 100 devs this is the thing that
i want seared into your brain
this idea of active recall all active
recall is after you learn something
you recall the things you just learned
typically like out loud to yourself so
you could read a chapter of a book
right and then once you're done reading
that chapter of the book you say out
loud all the things that you
learned and the reason this is so
important is just that simple act of
retrieval
is
better
than re repetition of that material four
times right so if we looked at this
right here
on this little sheet we have here one
second we pull up my
demo pro there we go so here we have
in one session repeated study in one
session is important we're going to
cover that in a second and then
retrieval
and so what you're seeing here is
this was a study where they gave a group
of students i believe it was like a
chapter of a biology textbook they had
to read the chapter and then a week
later they had a test on it right and so
the
first one here is just where they read
the chapter once and then a week later
they did this they did the test
here
they re-read the chapter four times in
one sitting like they just sat there
read it rewrite it read it reread it and
then here they read it once
and then said out loud
to themselves what they just learned
right they they recalled what they just
learned and what you'll notice is the
students did better
with
reading and recalling once than they did
by re-reading four freaking times
so could you imagine doing a
quarter of the work
and getting better results
that's when we talk about like learning
how to learn and learning the real
mechanisms behind how your brain works
how it stores information how it learns
new material
you can literally be doing a quarter of
the work and getting better results if
you're active recalling so for those
that are going through the reading this
week
i hope you've been doing your active
recall there's a lot of meaty topics in
the in that in that reading this week a
lot of like
honestly painful reading to get through
and if you're not stopping and doing
your recall you're setting yourself up
to not learn as effectively as you can
for me
i recall sometimes every couple of
paragraphs for me if i if i kind of go
more than two pages without recalling i
i kind of teleport to fantasyland i'll
get i'll get to the end of the chapter
and be like
what just happened to me right so for me
i actively recall very frequently maybe
every couple paragraphs or so and then i
i recall at the end of the chapter as
well
whenever a senior engineer tells me
anything at work i always i always okay
let me
recap and i repeat everything back to
them it's been working really well hell
yeah dab
it's a really good tool even on the job
alrighty
next
as you're putting in the time to
learning all of these concepts
guess what
you're going to forget them
you are trying to cram in
hundreds of hours of learning there's no
way that's going to stay in your brain
without utilizing some very important
tools
this was a study of one it's been
somewhat replicated in other studies but
it was just a person that tried to
remember
three
three letter combinations and they would
give themselves a three-letter
combination and then they would ask
themselves to kind of recall that
three-letter combination
20 minutes later and it was like a 40
chance that they forgot that
three-letter combination just 20 minutes
later and by the end of 31 days
there was almost an 80 chance they had
forgotten that three-letter combination
just three letters
not all of html not all css not all of
javascript just three
letters
and so if you
right
if you are
putting in all this time to learn
knowing that your brain is going to
forget about 80 after 30 days that is a
fool's errand you you you are setting
yourself up to fail so there is a
beautiful way
to flatten this forgetting curve and it
is probably hands down the most
important thing you will do
on your learning journey
and that is resetting your forgetting
curve
we can
space out some repetition meaning that
we'll cover a topic
and then a day later you can cover the
topic again a day later you can cover
the topic again and so on and so forth
and what happens when you review this
material
when you review this material multiple
times your forgetting curve starts to
get shallower and shallower what used to
be you would forget it in 30 days
becomes 60 becomes 90 becomes 120
becomes almost you'll never forget it
ever again and so we're able to reset
our forgetting curve by using a very
important tool called enki inky is flash
cards with an algorithm behind them
a-n-k-i
and what it does is you can put the
things you're learning into anki
and you can review them
and this algorithm will show you the
material when you need it most right so
uh if you've been kind of acing html
every single day you'll start to see
that it'll stop showing it'll start
showing you the html further and further
along so meaning that you'll go from
seeing that html topic every day to
maybe once a week to maybe once a month
to maybe once a year and so this idea is
that you want
to be putting everything that you're
learning into a tool like enkei so that
you never forget stuff
don't put everything
don't put all this time into learning
and then not use anki
yep
and anki is completely free you do not
have to pay for it it's free on android
it's free on windows mac os etc the only
thing that the only place you have to
pay for anki is on ios but you don't
even need to do that you can just use
the web browser and and view your cards
on anki web if you're on ios
so yeah
everything you learn
goes into
anki all the things that you want to
remember all the things you think you
need to recall
go into anki if you are trying to learn
how to code and you are not
using active recall and space repetition
you are doing so you're putting you're
you're making so much more work for
yourself and you're going to get
frustrated way more often i can't tell
you the difference between folks that
use anki and that don't one of the one
of the very first things that i always
ask my students is when they say leon
things aren't clicking for me things
aren't making sense my first thing i
always say to them the very first thing
i say every single student that says
leon things aren't clicking things
aren't making sense is show me your anki
that's it that's the first thing i ask
because if i can see that you're doing
review every day if i can see that
you're putting good good good stuff into
your anki deck right then we got some
other problems to to solve
but nine times out of ten when a student
says leon i'm lost things aren't
clicking things aren't making sense
they're not doing anki they're
definitely not doing it every day and
they're not putting they're not taking
it seriously so if you've been having
trouble with javascript you've been
having trouble with css you've been
having trouble with html anki inky inky
anki inky
and there's no way like people kind of
get stressed out about how to use anki
there's no wrong way to use anki make
cards put them put stuff in there and if
it's easy stuff you'll you'll remember
it faster if it's hard stuff it'll take
a little bit longer but there's really
no raw right or wrong way to do anki uh
the only real change i make to
anki
the only real change i make to anki
i have no idea where my itunes popped up
um the only real change i make to anki
is that i do
a study session
i do a study session of a hundred cards
that's it for me that's like the only
change i've ever made in anki is i do a
studies i do i do a study deck of 100
that's it that way i'm just reviewing
more cards each day but nothing else
special just get in there get in the
muck and do it if you need help with it
watch a youtube video there's plenty of
youtube videos on how to set up anki
there's nothing special to it the things
that i learn and i read i throw into
anki and then i recall them the stuff
that's too easy i won't ever see it
again like i showed you some of my cards
that says like i'll see that card in
five years from now the stuff that's
harder you see a little bit more
frequently no wrong way to do it
100 new a day yeah when i'm grinding i
do 100 new
but nowadays i don't really have as many
new cars as i have review
cool
my goal is to have a five-year anki card
it happens quicker than you would think
especially if you kind of like get it
right all the time
what are you anchoring today
my anki is mainly
like courses that i do so i've been
working through a lot of mit's open
courseware stuff uh they have a lot of
really great stuff on python advanced
algorithms data structures math
my big thing right now is trying to get
better at math
there's some bigger type of projects i
want to work on and my math ability is
just not where i want it to be and so a
lot of my anking is around math
and going through a lot of mit's open
courseware stuff related to math and
math for programming programmers
yeah
cool
i used anki for learning japanese yeah
that's kind of like the original use
case for it was to to learn languages
you know
cool
now the reason why we do this space
repetition why we throw everything into
anki
is because here's what happens when you
do space repetition
here's if you just study something once
that's how likely you are to be able to
remember something later on look at that
look how pitiful that is if you just
went through a reading like like we had
to read
like eloquent javascript and i need to
hear like all right
you had to read eloquent javascript oh
god
no god please no no
no
right so you have to read eloquent
javascript right and
if you just read that like paragraph
once
that's it like this is this is how
likely you are
to like remember
the things that you read look how small
that is
right that's how likely you are to
remember the stuff that you've read in
that book
however if you were just to recall once
to like read it
and then say out loud the things that
you just read
look how look how much more you're able
to actually recall stuff right you went
from like what like below 5
it's almost like
25 30 percent
just from out just from reading out loud
once right that's recall once it's not
recall a thousand times it's recall once
look at that jump oh my god i just want
to like want to grab all of you by the
shoulders and shake you and say like
look at that jump from reading to
reading and recalling once like look
look at it just look at it right
recalling once gives you that much more
of an impactful learning than if you
just read it like it just doesn't make
sense to not actively recall look at a
20 jump you're getting in remembering
stuff
what would you do to be able to remember
more stuff like like people would pay
people would take if i could give you a
pill
that would make you remember 20 more you
would take that pill all day long this
is the pill folks you recall once and
look at that jump
right look at that jump it's huge
now something that a lot of people do
is they'll they'll sit there and they'll
reread
right they'll re-read in one session so
they'll read the chapter and then
they'll read it again
that repeated study in one session
doesn't work
right so if you were to like reread that
chapter four times
look
it's worse
like rereading is worse than reading
once and then recalling like
how is this not
on the front page of every textbook
that reading once
and recalling is better than rereading
multiple times
it's criminal that it's not on the front
page of every textbook
and then where it gets really wild where
it gets really loopy is if we look at
the repeated repetition that's spaced
meaning we're using a tool like anki to
see it when we need to see it look at
that jump folks
we went from reading it once
and never recalling it to almost an 80
chance of recalling just through a
little bit of space repetition
these are cheat codes these are cheat
codes to your learning if you are not
using them
why
look at the differences folks look at
the differences it makes no sense
to go through this experience and not
actively recall and not space space your
repetition you're not doing those two
things you're just wasting your time
now
all of this
and the reason why we have 100 devs
is to help folks get jobs
right now there is a window open
i have no idea how long this window will
be open for
but right now there is a window open
where you can get a high paying job
that is one of the happiest careers
you don't need a degree and you can
learn it for
free
one more time
high paying job
one of the happiest careers
you don't need a degree and you can
learn it for
free
i have no idea how long this window is
going to be open for
i want each and every single one of you
to experience what it's like to be a
software engineer to to
command a good salary with high growth
right there are a lot of jobs out there
you can get to have decent salaries but
software engineering is a high growth
career the more money you put into it
sorry the more time you put into it the
more money you can make one of my
favorite things seeing in the
celebrations channel was i got a 15k
raise i didn't ask for it
what
i got a 15k raise
i didn't ask for it i got a five
thousand dollar rage i didn't ask for it
like if you just been in the in the
following if you've been in the
celebrations channel these past couple
weeks you've seen
a bunch of messages along that same vein
15k more 5k more didn't even ask for the
raise they just got it so when i say
high growth
that's what i'm talking about
right
it's a good paying job it's a happy
career you don't need degree you can
learn it for free
and the growth is there the more time
you put into it the more you learn the
more you do the more that that career
will grow with you
and so
one of the things i ask all my students
is what do you want
you want a good paying job with high
growth do you want a happy career
all right
do you do you want something that can
give you
uh the freedom to do the things that you
want to do
and if you want it go out and get it
we're laying a path
right we're laying a path that i have
seen help hundreds of folks get jobs
this is what i do
been doing this for the past 10 years
teaching people to code and for the past
five years i've laser focused on helping
folks get jobs
i'm gonna lay down a path that has
helped
a lot of folks
a lot of folks get jobs you look at our
last cohort you don't have to take my
word for this you can go into our
celebrations channel and see all the
jobs folks got from following this path
right
but
as always
to follow this path takes a certain
amount of privilege you have to have the
privilege of time you have to have the
privilege of being able to learn right
so i don't want you to think that
everyone can do this i believe everyone
can learn how to code it's one of those
things that like what's the thing that
you'll well what's the hill you're
willing to die on the hill and one of
the diamonds i think anyone barring
developmental delays can learn how to
code
but it might not be your time to learn
how to code but if it is your time if
you have the privilege to learn if you
have the privilege to invest this time
don't
waste it
and then the other really big thing that
will that we like to say around here is
that it's a marathon not a sprint
some of you are gonna hit classes to a t
right some of you are gonna be like yep
the classes were
absolutely paced perfectly
some of you are gonna go faster than the
classes and some of you are gonna go
slower than the classes one of the
beautiful things is that we have the
catch-up crew here at 100 devs where if
you're behind or if you're joining late
or if you just want to go at your own
pace right if you just want to go at
your own pace you have a group of people
that are doing something similar it's a
marathon not a sprint things don't have
to come
perfectly as classes going along you can
take your time whether it happens in 300
days or 200 days who cares this is for
the rest of your life right you're
setting yourself up for a career that'll
last the rest of your life hopefully and
so if it takes 150 days versus 300 days
who cares go
get your pace
make sure you're learning make sure
you're investing in yourself with active
recall with space repetition and you
will get there
i promise
i really do you put in the work you ask
lots of questions you do the things we
say the active recall the space
repetition you will get there i have
seen hundreds of folks from all walks of
life from every challenge you can
possibly imagine get there if they do
the things that we lay out now
the last thing i'll say before we move
into our review
is this path might not be the path for
you that's okay
there are
many many amazing resources out there
free code camp the odin project there
are other boot camps that you could join
right like you're like my like you might
not like my face right you might not
like the way that i teach that's okay
don't let that stop you from an amazing
opportunity when there are so many other
free
amazing resources out there right
there's a window open
where you can get paid well have a happy
career
you can learn it for free you don't have
to pay a dime you don't need a
certification
you don't need a degree and you can
learn it for free
thank you thank you
everybody loves my face that's okay
alrighty so
if it sounds exciting to you if this
idea of a high paid happy career where
you can learn it for free you don't need
a degree buckle in we're going to review
our html css and our javascript today
we're going to answer as many questions
as we can and we're going to take our
time we're going to go through it
remember this is something we've done
over 12 13 14 classes so if there's any
topic that we go over a little too fast
you need more time on it you can always
go back to
that class on youtube you do exclamation
point youtube always here in chat or
leonwell.com youtube will take you there
as
a well big topics left
uh this is we're cramming all of our all
of our
motivational learnings into the
beginning of this class i i know that
we're spending a little bit of time on
this but i think it's really important
especially for folks that are new to
hear all the the big things we've talked
about so give me give me like another
three or four minutes and then we're
gonna jump into the actual code
a lot of folks
when they first start trying to learn
how to code
they get down on themselves
they feel like they'll never be able to
learn it they'll feel like they'll never
be able to actually get a job they'll
feel like they
that they just don't have it in them and
they'll start to let all these
insecurities like all these um
doubts all these things creep into their
brain telling them that they can't do it
and it happens to pretty much every
student i've ever taught
and there's really two different types
of people
the folks that let that stuff get to
them and the folks that push on
knowing that they will eventually get
there
and one of
my former students and now expert in
residence
really talked about this one concept
that's always stuck with me
and they equate it learning how to code
to a baby learning how to walk
babies don't sit there having an
existential crisis about learning how to
walk they see other folks walking around
them and go you know what i'm gonna
learn how to walk too
for some reason when we get into coding
people look around and they see all
these cool projects they see all these
people slinging some good javascript and
instead of saying i'll get there too
they start to say to themselves i'll
never get there
babies don't do this
babies look around see people walking
and that's encouraging
that that's motivational and they
eventually learn how to walk
that's the mindset you need going into
learning how to code you can't compare
yourself to others
you can't look around and start to feel
bad
you have to look around and go holy [__]
that's really cool i'm gonna get there
too
so learning the code
is half
really hard work
and half believing you can do
it as soon as you believe you can do it
the life life changes you'll be able to
study more effectively you'll be able to
put more hours in
and so you just have to make a decision
am i going to get there or not and
that's one thing i can't do for you i i
can't make that switch flip in your head
other than to tell you i have seen every
type of student possible folks with
adhd dyslexia folks that are returning
citizens
parents
every walk of life that i can think of
some of them didn't make it some did the
ones that always did were ones that said
you know what
i can do this i will get there
eventually i'll go at my own pace and i
will get there i won't give up
they didn't give up and they all
got there hundreds and hundreds and
hundreds of them that told themselves i
can do this i will get there
i don't care how well you did in school
i don't care if you have a degree it's
all nonsense it comes down to hard work
and the belief that you can do it
you can do it
we'll stop
this also leans into this idea of
imposter syndrome
for a lot of us this idea of i can do it
is a harder battle than for others
some of us have this idea of imposter
syndrome where
no matter how good we do or or what we
do do it's not good enough and that's
one of the primary things that happens
to not only new developers but even
developers have been doing this for a
really long time it's one of the things
i struggle with the most
i've coded some amazing products i've
worked with some amazing teams i've
taught at harvard i've taught at mit i
i've i i think i have a pretty good
rolodex that proves my
engineering muscle but still there's
something in the back of my brain that
tells me i can't code i don't really
know what i'm doing
i don't know where that comes from
all i know is you have to squash it
you can't let that monster
be the thing that drives your learning
journey uh we we did the we did the
david goggins quote where sometimes you
have to open up that closet yell at the
monster and say what's up that's what i
have to do with my imposter syndrome
that's what a lot of my students have to
do as well
knowing that it's a thing and then
working to get over it or to to work
around it right
for some of you this imposter syndrome
will never go away
so if it's never going to go away and
you still want to be an engineer we got
to come up with strategies to work
around it and the strategy is knowing
that you're building great things that
you're on your own learning journey that
you're doing things right you're doing
your active recall you're doing your
space repetition you're getting your
reading and you're showing up for class
if you're doing those things you are
doing what you need to be doing and you
will get there in time imposter syndrome
or not
cool
the last thing that makes learning how
to code super super difficult
is not even the belief it's not even the
imposter syndrome it's this idea of the
trough of sorrow
most folks come they want to learn how
to code they're like high paying job
leon i saw so many folks get six figure
offers last cohort i saw so many folks
get jobs where they can work from home i
saw so many folks change their freaking
lives
right i want that and so they they come
to us having gone up udemy hill where
they bought all these courses because
buying courses feels good oh it feels so
good buying courses feels like you're
doing stuff even though you're not right
and then you're at the very very top of
udemy hill
and then eventually you say to yourself
i'm going to actually start learning i'm
going to actually start trying to build
projects
and quickly the wearing off of novelty
happens and you plummet into the trough
of sorrow
and then you're in this trough of sorrow
for months
months where you can't see the end
months where you're wading through the
muck
and this is what stops people from
learning how to code
once they get into the trough the
imposter syndrome creeps in that
feelings if they can't do it creeps in
and know this is the process that has
battle-hardened every engineer that has
come before you
i don't care how
intelligent or smart you think you are
you're still going through the trough of
sorrow
it's a lot to learn
there's a lot of things to remember
there's a lot of things to learn how to
do
you will get through it
and there are a few ways that my
students get through the trough of
sorrow
and it's really only these three things
that i've ever seen across thousands of
people that i've taught to learn how to
code and hundreds of folks i've helped
get great jobs the three things that my
students do well
is they know how to manage their
frustration
they know how to be consistent
and they know how to take care of
themselves so what the heck do i mean
for adult learners
life is somewhat in our control
we can say when we want to go to bed
when we want to wake up
maybe what we want to eat what we want
to do right we we kind of have control
over our days
children really don't have that control
and so it's easier for them to learn and
not get as frustrated there was a study
where individuals looked at when adults
learn sorry lose the ability to become
fluent in languages and what they found
is that they didn't really ever lose the
ability
it does somewhat diminishes you get
older but they didn't really lose it
what they realized is that as adults got
older they just lost the ability to
manage their frustration when it came
time to learn a new language they didn't
make time for it they got frustrated and
they never actually learned it so the
biggest thing that's going to stop you
from learning how to code is not being
able to cope with your frustration
they're going to be weeks where nothing
makes sense
let me say it one more time there will
be
weeks where things don't make sense
where you're trudging through the trough
of sorrow
and it just doesn't nothing's clicking
it doesn't it doesn't make sense you're
you're doing your recall you're doing
all things you're supposed to do and it
just it just won't make sense i've i'm
in that i've i've done that before like
i've as i'm learning new things there
will be weeks where i'm i'm trying i'm
grasping on anything i can grasp on i'm
i'm i'm on i'm on discords i'm on
youtube i'm reading blog posts i'm on
stack overflow and it'll just be a week
or two that goes by where i just nothing
makes sense
but i don't give up because i know that
eventually it will click i have a belief
in myself
and i can manage my frustration long
enough
to get to the point where it does click
most folks give up because they can't
manage their frustration and they don't
want to give themselves that time
give yourself the time the marathon not
a sprint
the other thing is that people when
they're learning
most often not consistent
and one of the worst things you can do
is chunk your learning onto like a
saturday
right a lot of my students go leona i'm
not going to study during the week but
i'll study i'll study 10 hours on
saturday
yes you're not going to study 10 hours
on saturday you might do it once
and then next week comes and you got a
baby shower the the week after you
i don't know grandma needs some new
flowers right
and so what happens when you're not
consistent daily is eventually life gets
in the way
right
eventually life gets in the way
and so
if you want to learn how to code you
have to be consistent every
day
we know why consistency works we we just
saw the charts on space repetition if
you're studying every day you're
building in that repetition so it just
works
right so being consistent every day
gives you that repetition but also make
sure that you are
getting that time in and that if you do
have an off day or two you're not really
super behind
so for most folks
you're looking at an hour to a day
trying to find that hour to a day is
really hard for a lot of folks but if
you can you can be consistent that could
be the game changer for you
i'm a couple weeks behind on javascript
it's too late for me to catch up nope
you have the catch-up crew that you can
join and always complete stuff at your
own pace we're also going to go through
a lot of stuff today
yeah that's that that's the point of
today's class this class is for you to
get you caught up to see all the topics
that we've covered so far and then to be
able to kind of know where you got to go
and fill in the gaps
all right so you manage your frustration
you're able to be consistent the last
thing is you got to take care of
yourself you're talking about months of
really hard mental work
you have to be taking your breaks at the
top of the hour you have to be
stretching you have to be
making sure
that you can go the distance to get
through the trough of sorrow so many
folks will start to learn
right they'll start to learn they burn
out
they burn out and once you burn out it's
really hard to recover
and so the way you stop yourself from
burning out is by giving yourself breaks
having manageable sessions
right
making sure that you are letting your
eyes focus on something that's not your
screen you're doing uh the exercises we
posted in discord we use dr levi the
fitness doctors hand exercises you're
going for walks to move around let your
back decompress right you got you got to
do all these things to take care of
yourself get good sleep eat well right
all these things will help you when it
comes to your learning journey
you can't just sit there for eight hour
blocks of time
with no breaks and expect to go the
distance and learn how to code it won't
happen
imagine your frustration be consistent
and take care of yourself physically but
also mentally right also mentally right
make sure
that you are
giving yourself grace throughout this
entire process
understanding there are weeks where
stuff will make sense in weeks where
there won't
making sure that you're being a
you're being a baby and and not looking
around and comparing yourself to others
and saying i can't do this i won't ever
learn how to walk that's [__] you
will don't use that as an excuse
and finally
do it
just do it
so just
do it make your dreams come true
just
do it
now wiser words have ever been spoken
just do it it's a lot of hard work it's
a lot of
managing your time it's a lot of
managing your frustrations a lot of
being consistent but folks that do it
you can reach a dream that i think a lot
of folks have
a good stable high-paying career
with in-demand skills that no one could
ever take from you
the ability to freelance to put more
food on the table whenever you need it
these are super powers that i want for
every single person
and so
just do it don't ever let one get in
your way don't let me get in the way of
you learning don't let anyone else get
in the way of your learning
but do it
and the beautiful thing is you can do it
with an amazing community the most
beautiful thing about 100 devs
is that we have folks that are willing
to help you go on discord you ask your
questions your questions gonna get
answered in our help channels
you come to our networking night you're
gonna meet some amazing folks you can do
a project night you're gonna work with
some amazing folks and so
i think a lot of folks
one of the reasons why they don't make
it through and they can't just do it
because they're doing it by themselves
don't learn to code by yourself join an
amazing community of folks that want to
see you be successful that are going
through the trough of sorrow at the same
time
and uh that's 100 devs so if you ever
want to join our community discord is
where we hang out your exclamation point
discord here in chat early on noel.com
discord
occ thank you for the bits
appreciate you
all right
you owe you last thing i'll say
don't go through today and then not
build some anki cards you owe you famous
words dr thomas you owe you right
um and in that video dr thomas video
they said if you went to best buy you
bought something you brought it home and
it didn't work it was broken it didn't
do the things that it said it would do
you'd be back at best buy demanding a
refund
hold yourself to that same bar right
hold yourself to that same bar if you're
not doing your anki you're not doing
your active recall you're you're not
putting in your consistent time each day
you got to have a refund conversation
with yourself
you owe you
alrighty
we're gonna jump into what is the
internet and then dive into some html
and dive into some css and then finish
up with some javascript but we're at the
top of the hour
so
we're gonna be healthy we're going to
take our
break
right we're going to take our break
i know we spent the first hour
doing all these uh kind of
laying the groundwork but i think it's
really important for folks that are
joining us new that they understand
active recall space repetition they
understand what type of journey they're
about to go on and so hope you see some
value and making sure the new folks with
us get that as well so let's go ahead
and take our five minute break and then
we're gonna start jumping back into what
is the internet going through html we're
locking and loading for a full day folks
we're gonna be here for a while so let's
put that timer up there make sure you're
staying hydrated
put five minutes on the clock
all right
have at it we back in five
truly say it hey thank you for the for
the three most
year three thank you
take your break i want to run ads that
you actually take a break
so
i got six ads you should have been
taking a break you should have got no
ads
should we take a break
all right
one second you set something up
brb
foreign
just start putting together a schedule
for myself can't keep going like this an
hour study on the weekdays more on the
weekends
yeah just make sure you don't burn out
on the weekends though
oh yeah being consistent awesome
all right folks come on back come on
back
anything i got accepted into an
apprenticeship program do you believe
it'd be difficult to do both probably
probably pretty intense to do both
good thing is that we'll always be here
alright folks come on back
alrighty so uh let's just take a quick
look at some of these
these kind of
quick questions in the slido and we're
going to jump into how the internet
works
i just want to do like three probably
when we come back from each break
uh having problems with the navigation
bar by using float only can you show us
how to do that like the bbc navigation
bar i believe we did the bbc navigation
bar in class
but when we get to floats i'm happy to
show a navigation bar just remind me
all we do is we float everything to the
left and you got to make sure that it
has
width
right make sure it has width
that's all you got to do
why
who should i reach out
to a company i like to work at someone
doing the job that i like to do or
someone hire a senior even a director so
the question is like you you see a
company you want to work out who do you
reach out to
you want to reach out to as many folks
as you can at that company whether
they're managers recruiters engineers
because you're going to send out 10
different requests only one of them is
probably going to get back to you
yeah
so you want to make sure that you you
reach out to as many folks as you can
when we get later in the program we're
going to do a hit list process where we
kind of find the companies we want to
work at we find the best people to talk
to each of those companies i'll do a
list live so you can actually see who
i'm reaching out to i always typically
start with recruiters and folks on the
engineering team
and then work my way out from that
uh
i just want to say
thank you no worries you all put in the
work not me
uh
how do you keep the conversation going
in a coffee chat without awkward silence
without asking a lot of questions and
making it like an interview
some coffee chats flow some don't right
and so the pho and so the coffee chats
that don't flow don't worry don't be
afraid to ask questions
right have your list of questions ready
to go if you want to
right
you can you can have your like we shared
like a list of like five to ten
questions if you get through the five to
ten questions and it's still not jivin
say hey i really appreciate you thank
you so much for your time i really get a
chance to know you a little bit and i
hope you have a great rest of your day
and then cut it short
you don't you don't have to become best
friends with everyone right that's why
we do so many because so many of them
will be duds but then some of them will
be amazing
but remember we asked you to read how to
win friends and influence people if
you're having a hard time
carrying conversations
definitely read that book that book
gives you the cheat codes to kind of
like talking with other humans and the
biggest thing you can do is get them to
talk about themselves so i ask tons of
leading questions let them talk about
themselves for a half hour if half hour
if the conversation is not flowing
called how to win friends and influence
people by dale carnegie yep
cool
alrighty let's talk about the internet
folks
so
chat what's the internet
you all here to become software
engineers specifically software
engineers that focus on full stack
web development
what the heck's the web
oh
yeah it is a wire
nice
uh or a series of wires and so let's
start off with a wire
and on this wire we're gonna see two
kinds of devices
we're gonna see
client-side devices
and we're gonna see server
side devices
all right let's see client-side devices
and server-side devices
now
client-side devices are the devices that
we use to consume the internet so
whatever you're watching me on right now
that's a client-side device right
whether it's a mobile phone whether it's
a tablet desktop whatever you use to
consume the internet is a client-side
device now
out there on this other side of the wire
are servers which are computers that do
a very specific thing for us
what do you think a server does server's
just another computer out there on that
wire but what do you think a server does
serves exactly it serves
when a website goes down that means that
the server is having issues most likely
yeah a lot of times like like uh stack
overflow i think went down the other day
right and so
a lot of times when when you're not
getting you're trying to go to website
you're not getting data back one of the
big issues is that the server might not
be on or running or something might have
happened on it so it can't serve up the
stuff that you need right so when you go
to a website right let's pretend it was
netflix right we go to netflix.com we
hit enter and nothing happens right
maybe that maybe nothing's happened
we're not getting any information back
that might mean there might be some
trouble
with netflix's server it's a computer
that's out there on that wire that's
trying to send you information but for
some reason it can't right now now
we have those client-side devices the
mobile phones the tablets the desktops
the
the things we use to consume the
internet
and running on these devices
is typically a bunch of programs
uh so running on our client-side devices
we typically have something called a
browser right and that browser
enables us to open certain kinds of
content
right
if you were on your client-side device
if you were on your laptop your desktop
right and i asked you to open
a word document what program would you
use
i should open a word document what
program would you use
yeah you use microsoft word
to open that word document if i asked
you to open a pdf
what program would you use to open a pdf
yeah you might use like adobe to open a
pdf
well guess what your browser is doing
your browser is opening
very specific kinds of files the
browsers that run on your computer like
chrome safari firefox they are opening
very specific files they're opening html
they're opening css and they're opening
javascript
files
right and so this browser
is going to be opening those files
just like microsoft word would open word
documents and adobe would open pdfs
and so when we make a request
from our
client-side device
we type
an address into our browser and hit
enter
that request
leaves our client side device
and finds its way to a
server
that server
here's the request and is in charge of
figuring out what to respond
with
so if we typed in
dominoes.com remember we're we're just
gonna we're gonna pretend here we're not
gonna actually type in dominos.com we
don't want to start that right so if we
were to type in dominos.com and hit
enter
that request
would leave our client side device
make its way all the way to domino's
servers
dominoes would hear that request
right they would hear that request
and they would respond
with a bunch of stuff they would respond
with
html
they were respond with css
they would spawn respond with javascript
images videos they would respond with
all of this
stuff
all right
and all that stuff would come to our
browser
and our browser
could open those files it could open the
html it could open the css it could open
the javascript
and that's what we can see in our
browser that's why we can see websites
that's why we can see stuff and interact
with stuff in our browser is because we
made requests to other computers that
sent us all these files now
i'm not allowed to go to dominos.com
anymore it's a long story many of you
know the story let's not get into it
no longer allowed to go to domino's so
we're going to pretend
we're going to pretend that i went to
dominos.com
right
went to dominos.com
pretended
hit enter
that request goes to domino's server
dominoes starts throwing pizza parties
they're they're high fiving they know
they're gonna send all their kids to
college because i'm back
right
server here's that request responds with
a bunch of files now
domino's website
have been there in a while but it used
to be glorious
right domino's website was beautiful
because when you go to dominos.com
you would see a delicious pizza at the
top of the page
you would see a list of ingredients
going down the page
all of that content
right all of that content that that
pizza that you see that list of
ingredients that you see that's all
powered by a technology called html
so if you've ever been to a website and
you saw content you were dealing with
html
now
on domino's website the peppers were
green
the pineapple was yellow the ham was
pink all the ingredients had really
beautiful styling they had different
colors it looked great
if you've ever been to a website and it
didn't look like a hot dumpster fire but
actually looked good that is css
so if you've ever been to website you
saw content
text images that's html
right but if you've ever been to a
website and it looked good right it
looked good right it had it had styling
it was centered there was color
that is css
now the final thing
the the kudegra the the
the most beautiful thing that was ever
on the internet at that time
was you could drag the ingredients onto
the pizza mind-blowing revolutionary
stuff here
it was the best thing ever
that behavior
that interaction that ability to drag
and drop stuff that was powered by
javascript
so
html
is all the content that we see
css is how we style it make it look good
and then if we ever have behavior
interaction we're listening for clicks
we're dragging we're dropping that is
all
javascript
and whenever we type in a url into our
phone or our tablet or our desktop and
we hit enter
what we are doing is making a request
that leaves our computer
goes to the server
and then the server has a bunch of code
running on it
that determines and figures out
what html to respond with what css to
respond with what javascript to respond
with and sends all of that back to our
device and specifically to our browser
for it to be rendered for the user
to see
now the cool thing is that server when
it hears the request it might have to do
a lot of stuff like sometimes it's going
to go to like a database
and get all my past orders
right sometimes it's going to go to
sometimes it's going to like look at its
files
and find the right html file to send
sometimes it's going to process our
credit card information sometimes it's
going to send the order to the specific
domino's restaurant
so there's a lot of stuff
that can happen server side right
once the
once the server hears the request we
asked for dominos.com it might need to
process credit cards they might need to
talk to a database it might need to
do some other things
we call all of that back end code
all that stuff that runs on the server
that the server needs to handle that's
back end code
all the stuff that runs on the client
side device that html that css that
javascript we call that front-end code
now someone that works on the
client-side code the html the css the
javascript
we would call them front-end web
developers
someone that just works on the server
side we would call them
back end web developers and someone that
works on both the front end
right
the front end and the back end we would
call them full stack
web developers so
at the end of this program
you will be full stack web developers
meaning that you have the ability to
write code not only on the front end but
also
on the back end so so far we've covered
html css and javascript enough to make
you dangerous as a front-end developer
then we'll quickly move into node which
will make you dangerous as a back-end
developer combine them together and you
are a full stack
web developer now since we write code
and we've already written code
or if you're new you'll write code today
you're already what we call a software
engineer someone that write write code
that understands the tools and systems
behind the code that they write but the
thing that we're specializing in as a
software engineer is full stack web
development we could write code that
runs on
tvs or refrigerators or
your mobile applications
you would still be a software engineer
but your focus would be different so
here we're software engineers unless you
live in canada an engineer is a
protected word there
but we're focusing on full stack web
development
cool
questions while we're here i know we
cover this in way more depth in our
intro to html class but since this
review it's the highlights questions
and
joe's you thank you for the uh for the
hydration cheers to you
fine well thank you for the prime
is this mern stack yes
can servers run any language are they
limited to javascript it's a great
question your servers can actually run
a lot of different languages
php ruby javascript etc but we use
javascript on
the back end to run on our server that
way we have to learn really one language
right
we only have to learn one language the
beautiful thing about learning
javascript
and why i teach it is because it'll run
on the client side
and the server side
you can't beat that folks imagine only
having to learn one language and getting
an amazing job that's what i mean
there is a window that is open right now
and i don't know how long it's going to
be open but one of the things that
contributes to this window being open
is the fact you only need to know one
language to build full stack web
applications you can't beat it
thank you for the posture check taco fed
good
there we go
we are live every tuesday and thursday
at 6 30 p.m eastern time we have our
lovely office hours every sunday at 1 pm
eastern time an amazing discord
community
27 000
you can always do exclamation point 100
devs to learn more about the boot camp
all right
will we learn react and the back end of
course
i got you clue
alrighty
let's keep it moving then
now
we talked about this html the css and
this javascript
and there's one really really important
rule
that you have to keep in mind
xavim2000a thank you for the hydration
cheers to you
there's one really important rule that
we have to keep in mind
and that's this idea of keeping our html
our css and our javascript
separate why might we want to keep our
html our css and our javascript separate
chat
organization
exactly
right organization this idea that we
want to make sure just our content is in
our html just our styles and our css and
just our behavior interactions our
javascript that way when we come back to
our code and we're trying to make
something pink where do we go if we're
trying to make something pink where will
we go chap
yeah we'll go to our css remember css
handles all of our styling so we want to
make something pink we'll go to our css
what if we want to add some more text
for our users to see
i want to add more text for our users to
see where are they
going yeah they're going to our html
yep
go into our html
and if we want
when our users click on something
to see it wiggle
right
want to see something wiggle what are we
going to use
yeah because we're clicking as that
behaviors interaction that's javascript
awesome so we have this separation of
concerns this idea html css and
javascript be all separate files they
should be all in their own place that
for organization
and
the beautiful thing about this is that
it's something that we can all agree to
that helps us when we come back to our
own code but if we're working with other
developers we know where to go and they
know where to go when dealing with our
code as well
throughout 100 devs they're going to be
a few things that i think are
really important best practices
right but we try our best
to be baddies and write bad code
when you're first starting out please
don't let these best practices be the
thing that holds you back from learning
or getting [__] done the only thing that
really matters is are you learning are
you building are you building projects
right and so
do not let
these best practices get in your way it
just doesn't matter this idea of clean
code this idea of having to
have perfection no it's all bs
so many folks
stress over best practice so many folks
stress over all these things and they
don't even know how to code yet
could you imagine stressing over best
practices and you can't code yet
why
it makes no sense the reason you're
doing that is because somebody on the
internet told you to
right and so you're holding it to
yourself and what you're doing is
slowing your growth
right you're slowing your growth you're
stopping yourself from actually learning
you're worried about best practices you
can't code yet no
best practices are for closers folks
that already know how to code folks that
are weighing the options of the code
that they are writing to make it more
performant to make it better but if you
can't code yet don't weigh yourself down
with that be a baddie write bad code
cool so i'll share best practices but
don't let me or anybody else get in your
way it makes no sense to be optimizing
before you can even code
alrighty
the first language we're going to
touch on today
is html
hypertext markup language
html is whenever you've been to a
website you saw content you saw text you
saw things right
you saw things
on a website that was all html
now to write html there is a specific
syntax you have to keep in mind
and the syntax of html is all about tags
every bit of content must be wrapped in
an appropriate tag so when you're
writing html there should be no loose
text
everything needs to be wrapped in the
appropriate tags
so here we have a very simple
hello world it's a nice piece of text
wrapped in a paragraph tag and you'll
notice that the paragraph tag opens
and then it closes
and the only difference between this
opening tag and the closing tags
are this lovely forward slash that
you'll see
on the closing tags each time
and that your opening tags can sometimes
get these super powers that we call
attribute value pairs they just enable
the tags to do a little bit extra
sometimes
so when you are trying to get your
content onto website you are going to
use html
for all of that content
and there are going to be tags for every
piece of content you want on the page
right you're gonna be tags for every bit
of content that you want on that page so
you're gonna wind up with a bunch of
text you're gonna wrap all of that text
in the appropriate
semantic html tag when i say semantic
all i mean is that there's an
appropriate choice for each bit of
content some stuff is going to be a
paragraph some stuff's going to be a
heading some stuff is going to be
a containing element and so there's
going to be a tag for every bit of
content
so let's look at some tags together
alrighty one of the most common tags
we're going to see right out the gate
are our heading elements our h1s twos
threes fours fives and sixes it doesn't
go past six
and all these are are
headings that describe content that
comes after when you see a heading think
like a headline in a newspaper
that headline you see it and it
describes all the content that comes
after
when people think of headlines they
often think of something being bolded or
bigger than the rest of the content on
the page but if we're thinking about
boldness and size what is that what do
you think would handle that when it
comes to front end web development
boldness and size what would handle that
yeah css would handle boldness and size
so when you're picking your html
elements you really have to fight the
urge to pick tags based on how they look
you should be picking tags based off of
their importance and their semantic
meaning meaning like the logic behind
each tag so
the logic behind an h1
is to be the most
important content on the page the
content that describes what that page is
about describes everything that comes
after
it
so the h1 is the most important topic on
the page
then we have twos through
sixes
now these you can use as many as you
want
right you can use as many as you want
and typically you're going to see them
cascade and important so you'll probably
have h ones then twos then threes then
fours and fives as you get further into
your page and things get less important
since the h1 is supposed to be the most
important thing on the page how many
should we really have
yeah
one
i have like one h1
with html5 we got a new caveat the
sections can each have their own h1 but
let's keep this idea like one one really
most important
thing alrighty
some other type of text that you will
see
are paragraph spans and the abomination
that is the pre-tang
paragraphs are for large blocks of text
in my opinion like a paragraph so like a
sentence or more is a paragraph
for me a span is a short piece of text
so less than a sentence
and then a pre-tag
it preserves all your white space so
if there are any enters tabbing
characters any of that stuff all that
white space that gets carried into the
browser
why do you think it's why do i think i
say a pre-tag is an abomination what is
all that white space the entering the
character returns the
moving of stuff around sound like
that sounds an awful lot like css to me
so i don't i don't use it
some other tags that i don't use are br
tags and hr tags because only nerds use
them
next
so
br tag what it does is it puts a break
some spacing between your content and an
hr puts a line across the page and that
hr that line across the page
right that line across the page could be
done with a border and so i call these
nerdfights because i've lost friends
over the br and hr tag it is true
we were at a meet meet-up we were having
some some drinks as one does had a tech
meetup
we brought the idea of a br i said it
was style they didn't think it was style
we had some words we haven't talked in
years now
so
was i right and then wrong or them wrong
and i right not really but to me that's
styling and so i don't like it
right
and so
what you're going to have to do as an
engineer is have strong opinions
held
weekly
meaning that you form strong opinions
you form strong decisions about the
things that you're doing and why you're
doing them but if somebody presents a
better argument you're willing to go hey
oh actually that argument makes sense
and you change the way you do things so
for me i didn't like the argument for
the br attack so i didn't change my
way cool
some other elements we're going to see
are m and strong tags
m and strong tags they're a little bit
tricky
because when you look at them in the
browser
when you look at them in the browser you
see that they're getting
m tags are italicized
and strong tags are bolded like you can
see them like italicize the text and
make the text bold this would violate
separation of concerns so use an html
tag to style stuff that's not keeping
our html and our css separate but the
reason why we use m strong tags is not
because of how they look but what they
can do for us when we use accessibility
devices when we use things like a screen
reader em and strong tags are read
differently so they enable us to provide
emphasis to individuals that might not
be able to visually see the page so we
don't care what they look like we can
always change how things look like with
css
some other big tags you're going to see
a lot are ordered list and the sibling
which is an unordered list order lists
are for lists that have to come in order
think things that you would get into
trouble if they were not in order so for
me an order list is like a recipe right
a recipe you have to follow specific
steps otherwise you're going to wind up
with some pretty bad brownies
an unordered list is a list that doesn't
have to be in a specific order for me an
unordered list would be like a grocery
list right you have your you have your
milk your cheese your bread all that
stuff on your list
and it doesn't really matter the order
it comes in unless you're a monster and
you like
organize your list based off of where
stuff are in the grocery store
i don't know
and last but not least
last but not least
we have our containing elements and if
you're doing an older tutorial you're
going to see divs everywhere or better
yeah if you're doing a tutorial and you
see divs everywhere and it's not a
reactorial run
because what happens is as html matures
and evolves we get new versions of html
and we're on like the fifth really big
version of html and with that fifth
version of html we got all of these
containing elements
and the beautiful thing about these
containing elements is that they all
have more semantic meaning than a
div has so the div
you could still use it it just doesn't
have as much meaning as the other
elements do
sections
are for like content
so if i had a bunch of stuff that was
like liver frosted treats
um
pumpkin
sardine treats right those don't really
make a lot of sense but when you put
them on a dog food website oh that makes
a little bit more sense to me so
sections are used for grouping like
content
articles are for content that can be
shared think like a blog post or a
newspaper article those are things that
could be shared so that'd be a good case
for an article
and a side is for ancillary or extra
content things that if you remove from
the page the page still makes sense
what's a really good thing for an aside
it would be a really good thing to use
for an aside
yeah ads are really good uses for our
sides because if we were to remove the
ads from a page the page just still
makes sense
headers for content the beginning of
your document and footer is for content
at the end of your document beautiful
cool now
these are a lot of tags that we've
talked about so far
like i said if you're brand new we're
going a little bit faster than we would
have done during our full html class
basically spent three hours on the stuff
we just covered in like a half hour
right so
know that if everything's not super boom
boom making 100 sense you always come
back and watch a specific class on html
that is on our youtube leondawel.com
youtube go to the cohort 2 playlist and
you will see our very first class on
html
cool
now there are so many other tags that we
don't have on these lists and so one of
the things that you're going to have to
get comfortable with
it's a little bit further along on the
sides one thing you're going to get
comfortable with is using a tool called
the
mdn
the mozilla
developers network
it is the best resource for looking up
html tags css styling and then even
javascript once again it's the m
d
n the mozilla
developers network and what that'll do
is that you can look up all these html
tags you can see when you can use them
when you should use them the examples
tied to those tags
right and so if you're ever having
trouble like i don't know what tags to
use leon the mdn is your resource
i had another earthquake
alrighty
let's look at some websites i have khan
academy up here
i'm looking at khan academy
we said the h1 was the most important
content on the page
what's the h1 on this page
h1 most important content on this page
what's the h1
a lot of folks are saying
for every student every classroom real
results is the h1
why would that be the h1
i'm gonna throw it in chat
yeah
it would be the h1
because it's the most important some
folks said because it's big
why don't we care if it's big
why don't we care if it's bold what is
size and boldness controlled by
yeah
boldness and size is controlled by css
so when we're choosing our html elements
we do not care
how big or bold something is this could
be the tiniest thing on the page yet
still be the most important and
therefore still our h1
now
we always have three different types of
users that we have to worry about
we have to worry about general users
accessibility users and web crawlers
general users are going to come to the
site and have a better experience when
we use the appropriate tags
accessibility devices will use these
heading elements to jump through the
page right they can jump from important
bit to important bit if they want to so
if they're using something like a screen
reader maybe they have a visual
impairment that screen reader could help
them jump from from heading to heading
and then google if google is going to
come to your site and crawl your site it
needs to figure out what your site is
about what is google going to look at
what is one of the things google might
look at to figure out what your site is
about
yeah google might look at your h1
if the h1 is the most important content
on the page it makes a lot of sense to
go and look for the h1 to figure out
what your site is about beautiful
how about this block of text what would
this be chat
what html would that be yeah paragraph
the settings are more so for me that's a
paragraph
how about this thing here
would that be
yeah be an image we haven't seen an
image tag yet but there will be an image
nice
and then look at this when i move my
mouse over it look what happens
what is that
i'm i'm i'm interacting with the site
and stuff is happening what is that yeah
it's javascript exactly
that mouse entering
that behavior that interaction that's
all powered by javascript now it might
be triggering
a css animation
but that listening for the event and
doing stuff is all javascript exactly
alrighty
khan academy works what would that be
the tag we looking at
h2 beautiful beautiful
yeah it's an h2 it's definitely
less important than the h1 that was up
here but still a heading it describes
the content that comes after so it's
still heading to me
how about these three things here
what are each of those
yep those are all images nice
how about these right here personalized
learning trusted content
tools to empower teachers what could
those be
yeah maybe like h3s because they they
describe what comes after right they
describe like the paragraph that comes
after so they're still headings but
they're definitely less important than
the h2 so maybe h3 is there and then i
kind of gave this away but these big
blocks of text
all would be
paragraphs
and we can kind of keep doing the same
pattern over and over again
right
another heading maybe an h3
and maybe an h3
another paragraph another image
right
heading paragraph image so we kind of
see these kind of like these same bits
over and over again how about this gray
box
would this gray box be
miriam a thank you for the stuff
yeah be a section right grouping like
content together
we have like another white box here like
if we were to look at this box here
that'd be another section
right another section another section
another section another section right so
we can see the really big building
blocks that we're going to see over and
over again when it comes to to building
out with html are really gonna be like
our sections our headings our paragraphs
and we're gonna sprinkle in some other
elements too like images and then
eventually links which we call anchor
tags so
there's maybe 10 to 20 tags you really
have to know that you're gonna use over
and over and over again right
even though there's probably like
hundreds of times like 100 plus tags
especially now with like all the new
inputs and stuff
but it's really only a handful that
you're going to use all the time and so
at first html can seem pretty
overwhelming but once you learn those
handful of tags the ones that are in the
slides and the ones we're about to
review together today today you can
really start to build pretty much
whatever you want in html
so
let's go ahead and code out a brownie
recipe website we've actually done this
in class before and you've had some time
to do it on your own
but we're going to code this one
together
and then we will
talk through a bbc website and then
we'll take a break so
in your starter code for today is the
brownie recipes website so
if you need the starter code in our
discord exclamation point discord there
is a follow along materials channel
to see that channel you have to agree to
our rules at the end of our rules is an
emoji you have to click
once you agree to our rules you see all
the channels open up to you
so agree to the rules and then you will
see a follow-along materials channel
in that channel you will see a notice
for our super review today and there
will be a zip file you will need that
zip file today for all the stuff that
we're going to do if you want to code
along
all right so this one we're about to do
you don't have to code along so when we
take our break if you need more time to
go get the zip
download it and unzip it that's okay
you can do that and then the other thing
you're going to see me be using is vs
code vs code is a free text editor
that's v s code the free text editor is
what you're going to see me be writing
my code in today
if for some reason you're on a machine
that doesn't enable you to download
stuff you can use a website called
glitch.com like glitch like it's like
glitching right glitch.com and you can
type in all your html your css and
javascript and that as well
alrighty
so what i did is i downloaded my zip
file
i unzipped it
and now i can open up i just always open
the entire folder
in the s code the way you'll see me do
most of the time
is i'll just drag my entire super review
folder
and i'll drag that to vs code and then
once you drag it to vs code it just
opens up the entire folder
and that's great to open the entire
folder because then you just have
right you just have all your stuff ready
to go
so down here i just have
brownies.html loose and that's what i'll
be starting with today
already
it looks blurry to you there's two
things you can do you can refresh and
then also check your quality settings
we're streaming at 1080p 60 frames per
second
and you can change your quality
depending on your internet speed
mid mule said is this a code along
it's up to you
if you're brand new to code like today's
your first class i wouldn't follow along
right now i would just pay attention but
uh if you've been doing this for a
little while and you want to type along
with me sure why not
alrighty let's look at this
so we have a brownie recipe website
all right and so chat's going to help me
here
uh i have at the very top deep dish
brownies what do we think this is going
to be remember all this is loose text
right all this is loose text every bit
of text must be wrapped in an html tag
yeah so we're gonna wrap this in an h1
so our h1 opens
and then our h1 closes
so notice
the only difference between the opening
and the closing tag
is that lovely forward slash you're
always going to see that on your closing
tags
this little bigger
there we go
you have that lovely opening and then
the closing tag
every bit of content must be wrapped in
the tag we have an image here i'm going
to save this image to the end just
because it's a little special to do
something a little bit different for
that one
next
recipe by bis mcmahon what would that be
chat
does it describe the recipe like does it
describe everything that comes after
so some people are saying spam because
it is a short piece of text this could
be a good candidate for a span i could
see that to me it also describes the
recipe like this whole recipe
is by this person right so it could also
be a heading to me now
is it an important heading no
to me like i don't ever go to a recipe
website and look for a specific author
right some people might some people
won't be this is a rachel ray household
if it ain't rachel ray
uh i
i ain't i ain't doing it
right
i ain't doing it right so to you it
might be more or less important and
that's the beauty of front-end web
development
a lot of times you're working with a lot
of folks marketing
management that will dictate how
important stuff is and sometimes it's
just up to you to figure out what that
is
so for me
for me
i'm a martha and snoop household
rachel ray's pisol is trash
so for me um
i don't think it really matters that
much i'm gonna do an h4
right h4
and it opens and closes i think it does
still describe everything that comes
after it it's just not that important
eventually when we get deeper into
accessibility there will be this idea of
going from one to two to three the fours
but for today we're just trying to
figure out like all right based on
importance what tag should it be
next we have related recipes
uh and so what comes after will be
related recipes so all these are related
recipes
what are we feeling for related recipes
chat
why are there spaces between each line
uh just for readability you don't have
to have the spaces but i think when
you're first starting it's a little bit
easier to see
whitespace doesn't matter in html
oh i'm seeing a lot of different stuff
here
i'm gonna go h2
i'm i i think related recipes is super
important like if you don't like this
recipe
i want you to go
to my other recipes right i want you to
go to my other recipes so to me
what comes below in related recipes is
like super important uh to me that's
super important right like if you i want
you to stay on my website i don't want
you to go to some other recipe website
so to me all the related recipes are
really important
all right then we have
a bunch of different recipes
right we have a bunch of different
recipes so we have a bunch of different
recipes what is what do you think we're
calling for here there's we would call
this a what
yeah
[Music]
people say it's a list it's a list of
recipes now does
can't tell their low-fat brownies have
to come before chewyish brownies or does
but
bodacious brownies come after easy fudge
brownies like no
the order doesn't really matter here and
so since order doesn't matter for this
list we can use a ul
so here's my ul
i'm gonna make sure that i open and i
make sure i close it right away
come down here now my whole list is
inside this ul
right
now
list
often has something inside them we call
them if you had a grocery list what goes
on a grocery list
what goes on a grocery list
items exactly so the same thing
same thing we're going to do here is
that since we're using a list an
unordered list each one of these values
here will be a list
item
or an item on this unordered list
what i just did here
is i
held down command
and i clicked next to each line inside
of my list
what this now gives me is the ability to
have my cursor
at each
line
which enables me to do stuff like this
right i can actually go ahead and type
everything out that i want to type out
i'm going to explain that the anchor tag
stuff in a bit
and then i'm closing up my allies
beautiful
right so for me
all i did is i held down command
and i clicked
next to each line
of code now if you're not on a mac
you might need to use control
if you want some other type of operating
system that you use might use alt right
and so alt or control try them on your
on your different operating system right
and that's how you can you can type on
multiple lines at one time it's one of
the beautiful things about using a text
editor is you get features like that
where you can type multiple lines at one
time you can jump around so for me i
held down command and i clicked each
line
and then the jump to the end
on a mac is just command and the right
arrow
on windows i believe it's just the end
key yeah i think it's just the end key
on windows so for me
i held down command and i clicked i did
command right arrow to jump to the end
you could also use
end key on windows things like that so
right now i don't need you to stress
over knowing all the shortcuts you can
just give give a quick vs code shortcuts
on google or just google vs code
shortcuts or go on youtube and type in
vs code shortcuts and learn all the
shortcuts that's not what we're going to
spend our time on today i just want you
to know that shortcuts exist
and so you should spend time figuring
out what they are for your text editor
of choice
i'll be using vs code for this entire
course
you might use something different that's
okay
but i recommend that you use vs code in
chrome at least for the beginning parts
of this course so that way the things
you're seeing on my end are the things
that you're seeing on your end
all right so you'll notice that each of
these lines are wrapped in an li
right they're both right they're all
wrapped in allies which is short for
list item
but you'll also notice that inside of
each li is also
an anchor tag
an anchor tag is a
link it's going to take you somewhere
else and so when i looked at these
related recipes right when i looked at
these related recipes what i saw was
wait a minute oh i'm going to click on
this
and it's going to take me
to that recipe so if i need to go to
that recipe if i need to go from where i
am to that recipe it needs to be a link
and so that's why we have these anchor
tags
and instead of putting the octothorpes
here we could put the link to an actual
website right we could put a link to an
actual website there and then when we
clicked on choose brownies it would take
us to that site
cool
how about prep time
what do we feel about prep time
what do you feel about prep time
yeah i'm feeling a two or a three on
this one
i think prep time is like one of the
things that i actually care about when i
look at a recipe like how long am i
gonna spend uh making this so i might be
inclined to do an h2
i might be i might be able to be
convinced that an h3 could be used here
and how about how about our 60 seconds
what would our 60 mins be
yeah i'm going to go with span here
short piece of text
beautiful
so this heading definitely describes the
stuff that comes after the 60 minutes so
it's definitely a heading
and then a span i think i'm going to use
the same thing here i think servings
are pretty important to most people as
well
but like i said you might you might
differ on that you might use a slightly
different
um
a slightly different tag here
beautiful
how about ingredients
we feel ingredients are important
these might be an h3 actually i might
make those h3s but
i'm getting two ingredients i'm like
greens are definitely really important
yeah i think ingredients are definitely
an h2 for me
so i'll do my h2
and i'll close my h2
and then i want to make sure that
i have a list of ingredients so this is
probably a what
i have a list of ingredients what is it
yeah it's an unordered list it doesn't
matter if we put the eggs before the
vanilla or the sugar after the butter it
doesn't matter the order for the
ingredients so that's a ul or unordered
list
i'm going to break my list
and then put the list back inside
i always like to make sure that i open
and close everything always make sure
that everything closes uh that we don't
get into any errors i'm typing a little
slow just so folks can kind of see what
we're doing here but
i'm still doing what exactly what i
would do where i kind of open it up
make sure it closes because if you if
you don't right if you don't
if you don't put the closing elements
you're going to run into trouble so
always make sure your stuff closes
all right now each of these are going to
be list items
so on a mac
i can hold down command and alt or
option and then use my down arrow and i
get the cursor on each line so instead
of having to like click on each one like
you can hold down command and click on
each one
on mac you can do command and alt and
then just hold down the arrow and get
the cursor on each line
and then i can just do my lovely li
command right arrow to jump to the end
and then close my li's
alt control down arrow for windows cool
thank you
and so like i said you have to worry
about knowing the the shortcuts right
now something you probably google and
watch a video on to get all of them
cool
it is very convenient exactly
alrighty
finally we have the directions like the
the instructions for making it i think
this is going to be an h2 as well
right we have a lovely h2
and for me
the directions are very important like i
can't beat the eggs before i like put
the stuff in the bowl
if i was to put stuff into the oven
before i put everything in the bowl then
i run into trouble
so since this has to be in a very
specific order i'm going to agree with
chat here and do a do an ol
right
all this stuff needs to go inside
of the old
beautiful
and then once again you're going to wrap
all of these in an li
so my li will open
and i'm not going to jump to the end
here i'm just going to click again
because the ends are on different lines
and i will close my allies beautiful
anyone else craving brownies now me too
little me too
all right so we have our order list our
lis
right
are wonderful
and
right now
i've made all these changes
but is my file saved
i've made all these changes but is my
files saved
no how can i tell that i have not saved
my file
yep the white dot at the top
if we look at the top
there's this lovely white dot that's
letting me know that my page has not
been saved
so i can do my command s or um
file save
right
save it make sure my changes are saved
beautiful
and you'll notice that i'm like not
opening this in the browser like i'm not
checking to see how this looks why am i
not checking to see how this looks
it doesn't matter man manny said it
doesn't matter
exactly it it doesn't matter
i don't care how it looks because how it
looks is controlled by css and have i
written any css no i have not written
any css and so since i have not written
any css i just don't care how it looks i
don't actually have to open it in the
browser and see what the heck is going
on
right
i'm just writing html right now and it
doesn't matter it could look like a hot
dumpster fire just does not matter
all right how about the tip
tip for me it doesn't really matter it
does describe the content that comes
after so i'll do an h4
right and then this tip aluminum foil
can be used to keep food moist
cook it evenly and make it clean up
easier so that's definitely a paragraph
of text so i'll open my paragraph and
i'll end my paragraph beautiful
uh nutritional info is an h6 for me
beautiful
h6 for me just doesn't matter
and
if there were this is how you know
that the headings end at six there's no
seven there's no eight there's no nines
six is as low as we can go
uh so that's why we we use the six here
and then
the 40 cals short piece of text that's a
span for me then we'll we'll we'll close
the span
beautiful
all right
find this recipe here
it's a it's a full sentence so it's
probably another what like this line 67
is probably another what
yep chet's got it seems like another
paragraph to me
i'll close my paragraph
um but there's something interesting in
here right it says here
here sounds an awful lot like a what
an anchor tag yep an anchor tag so i'm
going to wrap here in an anchor tag
and
we saw this anchor tag open
and close before up top
and we said that we could put an actual
like url in the anchor tag and we have
this lovely url here so i'm just going
to cut this
and i'm going to put it instead of
putting a placeholder i'll put the
actual url so what's going to happen now
is when i click on here
this is going to take me to this
allrecipes.com
deep dish brownie that link will
actually link me to this page
i'm gonna go ahead and save it
um the last thing we have up here is
this image tag that we didn't get to
and so that's gonna be img with a source
that equals brownies.jpg
and then an alts
that equals
brownies and then i close it so
something weird with the image tag
what's what's weird about the image tag
compared to every other tag that we've
seen
yeah it's self closing no closing tag
it's self closing because the image is
content if we look at all these other
tags we look at this h4 we look at this
h2 we are opening and closing around
content we open and close open and close
here's the content
the image is already content itself like
it's it's just an image you don't need
to it's no text right
so we don't have to open and close
around text it's just going to be an
image that's going to show up
and so the source is the location of our
image
so right now this would only work
if i had this brownies image on my
computer
at the same level of this html file
which i don't so this would break we
wouldn't see a brownie photo right now
and since i know it's going to break you
always want to make sure you have an alt
the alt is
the alternative text that shows up in a
couple different scenarios
we talked about the three kind of users
we have to care about
our general users when this image breaks
because i don't actually there's nothing
like if we look over here in my little
tree
there's nothing there's no brownie image
over here so i know that this is not
gonna work i just don't have the image
to show you right so a general user will
see the word brownies and no oh
that image should have been brownies
someone that's using a screen reader if
the screen reader wants to
to read the image
somebody might have a visual impairment
and can't see the brownies image but at
least they could be read that oh it was
a brownies image and then last but not
least web crawlers like google could
come and understand that that image is a
brownies image
so whenever you create an image always
make sure you have an alt to serve all
three of those
users
alrighty
power through this
let's save it and i'm going to open it
in the browser just to see i'm just
going to open in the browser i just want
to take a quick peek at it i don't care
what it looks like
because
we haven't written any css just want to
take a peek
all right we'll notice is that deep dish
brownies is big bold black and beautiful
much like myself but there's something
interesting about the deep dish brownies
being big bold black and beautiful
what's interesting about that
yeah
nick something got it there's no css yet
so how the heck did this get big bold
black and beautiful if we haven't
written any
css well this is some of the default
style that comes inherent in the
browsers so as we move to css one of the
things we have to keep in mind is that
each browser has a default styling that
it wants to impart on our html and we're
gonna actually have to come up with ways
to either stop it entirely or work with
it in the long run but know that that's
gonna be one of our first challenges we
start writing css is to handle this
default browser styling right i call
these money problems it's something that
as you start to learn more and you learn
how to handle it it makes its job
security right these little things that
we have the quirks we have to work
around make it so that it's a little bit
harder to do what we have to do and we
have to learn how to solve them and and
it helps us
keep our jobs
all right we got a hydration and then
we're going to take a break so
uh
zim 2000 and then ms.3 both thank you
for the hydrations cheers to you
thank you
uh we just did we just powered through
html
in an hour
if you are new
there is no way that you fully
understand html we're gonna come back
we're gonna see some more html we're
gonna introduce some css right we
literally did that across two three-hour
classes so if there are things you need
to fill in and things don't make sense
entirely that's okay
today is like an overview for you if
you're brand new to see all the
wonderful things that you can get into
and then as you need to you can go back
to individual classes and get more
hands-on keyboard practice for each of
them and make sure you join the catch-up
crew on our discord
once you agree to the rules you'll see
all these channels open up once you
click the emojis in the join 100 dev
section you're going to see a bunch of
other channels open up to you like the
catch-up crew where you can go through
this at your own pace
all right
next up folks we're going to look at a
site and see if we can talk through some
more of the html and then we're moving
on to css so let's put five minutes on
the timer here
five minutes on the timer
i'm gonna run ads so that way new folks
that are joining us don't to sit through
ads folks that are here and don't
haven't used prime or don't have a sub
they don't they get ads sometimes while
we're teaching and so i like to run ads
while we're taking a break because you
should be taking a break anyway you
should be getting up if you're able
hydrating moving around if you're able
looking at letting your eyes focus on
something that's not the screen
right then we're gonna come back in five
minutes and keep pushing
alrighty folks dn5
uh the open in browser is a plugin
called open in browser so
nvs code if you
go to
[Music]
the extensions like these little blocks
here you can type in your extensions and
i'm using this open in browser by tech
er
and then that gives you the ability when
you right click to open in browser
you can see i don't usually use that
many extensions and i always recommend
my students when they first start out to
not use too many of them get used to
doing stuff the hard way and
then add extensions over time to make
your life easier
i really i don't i don't like live
server in the beginning so i want people
to actually get used to saving their
files refreshing the page because i've
had so many folks go into interviews and
forget to like refresh pages like write
all this code and they don't actually
refresh
and then then they don't get the job
because they just haven't practiced that
so
i like my students to start without it
and then once you feel comfortable
saving refreshing and all that stuff
then you can switch to some other things
brian thank you for the comment about
the thumbnails
it's just something for now i gotta
figure out how to make better ones
cool all right folks come on back come
on back
alrighty
i always just start off each top of the
hour with some questions
i'm looking at the slider remember you
can submit your questions during the
slido
and then you can also upload the
questions that you want me to answer the
most
alrighty
i have a call tonight with my first
potential paid client
i know they're going to ask about seo
how do you recommend we handle
conversations about seo
so seo stands for search engine
optimization like getting your site to
rank on the first page of google when
they type something out you want to show
up in the results that's search engine
optimization
the wonderful thing about search engine
optimization these days
is back in the day it used to be like a
dark art
you do all these weird things to rank
and then google would make an update and
all your sites would tank but these days
google's pretty clear
there are some things you want to do on
site to make sure your site's good and
then you just want to have really good
content so if you have someone that
wants seo
you can make sure their site is seo
optimized meaning that you've done all
the little bells and whistles on the
actual site to make sure that google
approves of it and then it's just
getting good content on that site and so
the wonderful thing that we've shown
before is that
on any site you can right-click inspect
and then there's this lighthouse tool
you can run that diagnostic and it'll
tell you what google sees in terms of
seo
it's not the everything you need but
it's a really really really good
starting place if your site looks really
good on lighthouse it's gonna look
really good to google and so when you're
talking to your client you can recommend
that hey i do everything that's required
on site to make your site worthwhile for
google and then i can help you with um
making sure that you have a way to
generate or a way to post content that
you generate so that google can see your
great content and rank you that's about
it
yeah seo is search engine optimization
the showing of your like you you type
something in like
you type something in like dominoes and
then domino shows up first that's search
engine optimization
hello
all right let's do two more and we'll
jump into css
i asked the cto for some advice on
getting the first job and he said keep
working on your skills contribute to
open source software and the rest will
come thoughts it's pretty good advice
the idea of continuing to progress your
skills build projects is what helps you
get a job now open source software you
can you can replace that with one of
three things
getting a client
open source contributions
or volunteering are all kind of
replaceable in the in that in that
category as long as you're working on
projects and you're doing one of those
three things where other humans have
seen your code and you've worked with
others to build good code you get rid of
that stench that that new boot camp or
smell
and uh yeah so if you're doing those
those two things
you'll eventually get a job the only
thing that i that i don't like is the
the rest will come no the rest is a hard
slog it's a lot of hard work networking
your way into these opportunities um
just doing open source and working on
your skills won't guarantee a job it's
the networking that gets you a job
quicker
cool
one more
uh do you have any tips on how to make
the website's online ordering and
checkout section work with a pos system
and like how some restaurants have
online ordering well look at any website
that you see that has online ordering
you can right click inspect and see what
system they're using there are plenty
off the shelf solutions for online
ordering you would not be coding that
yourself you're going to find some sort
of application that you can drop into
the site for your client that connects
with their pos system it's not something
you would code from scratch so do you do
research on kind of different uh
ordering systems ones that you think
would integrate well with their pos
system and then you just implement that
for them
my dad wants me to build him a 500 site
is this a good first project i have no
idea because for 500 they could be
asking for a hell of a lot uh so
it's really not about price it's about
what can you get done at price points
and so yeah
pos is point of sale it's like the thing
that you you punch in the orders into so
like when when a
a server takes your order they like type
that in so the kitchen can see what's
going on
all right last one before we jump into
css that mini hackathon was super fun
we'll be able to do that more often
throughout the cohort absolutely we have
lots of time there'll be that i'll be
budgeted for kind of working on projects
as we get deeper into full stacks
specifically we'll learn how to work as
engineering teams and then we'll put you
all together to work in engineering
teams together
so yeah lots of other times to work
together in the future
alrighty
let's go ahead and let's look at the bbc
so
here is a real website that a lot of you
have already coded
if we're looking at the bbc
and we look up top
what would this logo be
would this logo be
yeah be an image
how about sign in
yep
span
right probably span for the the text to
sign in maybe this is an image right the
little the little the little face
uh then here
we have a list of what a list of what
yeah definitely a list of links right so
at its core
this is going to be
at least a ul like an unordered list
because
news before sports it doesn't matter if
sports become before news or whatever
right um you might have a preference but
it's not something you're gonna get in
trouble for so it's an unordered list
and
inside of that unordered list is an li
and each of those lis have anchor tags
in them right like we want to be able to
click on
news
and go to the news page
so it's a uli anchor tech now
this will be at the top
of every single
bbc website
and so
google is going to see that they keep
saying home news sports home news sports
home news sports probably across
thousands if not tens of thousands or
hundreds of thousands of pages
right
and so
how can we let google know we're not
trying to stuff
right
right we're not trying to stuff
for these keywords we're not we're not
trying to
to to to trick you here we just know we
just need this to be part of our
navigation on every single page what can
we throw that in yeah
we have this lovely tag called a nav tag
and so with html5 we got a new tag
called nav and all of our navigational
content should go in navs so really this
is going to be a nav
that has a ul in it
each of those uls have an ally and he
shows lis have an anchor tag inside them
beautiful
uh someone said
uh why is this a span and not an anchor
tag it could be an anchor tag i think
it's fair that this could be an anchor
tag
if you if you're going to click on this
and it take you somewhere then it's then
it's a link
i don't know this is going to actually
take you anywhere though right this
might just reveal a sign in right
so if you click on this and it just
reveals a sign in that to me is not like
a link that's taking you somewhere right
so it might not be a
actually a link depends on what happens
when we click on it
cool
now all this content at the top
right all this content at the top
we're gonna put in a special tag called
a what
yeah a header
so our header we said a few slides ago
is for content at the beginning of the
document so here is our content
at the beginning of the document
so that's our header inside of our
header
we have like our images we have our our
link or our spam
we also have our
nav
which has our ul
which has our li which has our anchor
tags for all of these right
and at the end there's also inside of
our header a what what is that over here
at the end
yeah i got a lovely form at the end so
forms one of the things we haven't seen
yet when it comes to html a form is a is
is an element
that enables the user to enter in text
right so form is the containing element
just like a ul is a containing element
and then inside of that we would have
inputs so you would have a form with
inputs inside just like with a ul you
have lis inside you never really have
lis without a ul or an ol and you would
never have inputs really without a form
cool
we got like a a white block here
what would that block be
that whole grouping would that be
yep we got two
competitors here
it could be a main
which is a special tag with html5 for
the main content on the page
or it could be a section
so either a main or a section could be
useful here
um i might go with main
excuse me
um but i could clearly see a section
here as well so section or main either
one will go here
and then
inside of this
let's say main
we can have two what
to what
yep two more sections right two more
sections
inside these sections what would this be
here
would that that text be
i think the text is a really strong
candidate for the h1 or
at very minimum in h2
i think
this describes the rest of the content
right so it definitely describes like
the rest of the content in maine
you might say you know what leon it
doesn't really describe everything on
the page so maybe it's more in h2
you might even say like hey this this
might be really important right to the
bbc
them knowing that you're on bbc's
website and that's some other news
website might be the most important so
that might be the h1 if they agree that
that's the most important or they might
say you know what our biggest headline
right our biggest headline is the most
important and that would be the h1 so as
a front-end developer it might not
actually be in our control to dictate
what might be the h1 in this case so to
me this is either gonna be an h1 or an
h2
we got like a nice
big block of text here so what would
that be
paragraph nice and then a short piece of
text here at the end
what would that be
nice span exactly so we got a heading
either h1 or 2 depending on your opinion
there
a paragraph and a span lovely
inside this section on the right we have
four more what
we have four more what
yeah we have four more sections
i like them as sections because i think
they're containing like content uh some
folks might even use a div here that
would be okay
but they're sections to me
inside those sections we have
some sort of heading maybe like an h3
and then a span so each of these we have
an h3 and a span h3 in a span h3 and a
span beautiful
and then down here we have another
what
another what
yeah another section nice
you get a lot more out of these reviews
if you're typing in chat just saying if
you have the ability to type in chat you
should type in chat it's going to help
you stay focused as we spend all these
hours reviewing
no we're going all the way through
javascript
we're in our second going into our our
our third hour here and we're just
hitting css so
you want to stay
sharp through the whole way
definitely uh definitely be
participating
especially have as we haven't gotten to
hands on keyboard time yet beautiful
yeah it's another section
another section beautiful
would this area here what would that be
would that be what would that be
i'm answering out loud hey there you go
i actually like that it's pretty cool
yeah i think that's a good candidate for
an h2
super important describes the content
that comes after definitely an h2
and then we have three
what
three what yeah three sections
and each of those sections should have a
what
i think it's gonna be an h3 if this is
an h2
then i think each of these headings are
h3s so i would say h3s on each of these
and then
these like bigger blocks of text would
all be
paragraphs lovely
and then spans at the bottom of each of
these
so really we were able to do
[Music]
this entire
website with mainly sections headings
paragraphs and spans
we sprinkled a few extras in there we
sprinkled an anchor tag for links we
sprinkled like this idea of like a nav
and a header and a form
so really with just like 10 or so tags
we're able to do pretty much every
single thing you see
on a very popular website like a popular
news website so when you're learning
html i know it could definitely seem
overwhelming at first there's a lot to
learn a lot to remember make sure you're
getting your active recall in make sure
you're doing your space repetition and
realize that there's really not that
many tags that you need to know to be
dangerous so if you want more practice
with the html
definitely go through and watch our html
classes we get we build a lot of stuff
go back to the brownies
that we just did the brownies that we
just did
make sure you're starting fresh with
just the text fill in all your html and
then compare it to the solution that we
just did
right
it's all divs yeah so a lot of sites
that you see like if you just go and
inspect the their website you're gonna
see a lot of disks because a lot of
sites use a cms or a content management
system it's some system that spits out
what you see on the page right so
they're not really using the best most
semantic up-to-date stuff they're using
some sort of some sort of generator that
spits out what you see
do you ever use dibs yeah i still use
those quite frequently i think they
still have their place it's just often
there are more semantic choices to be
had
when to use main or section let's look
it up
let's look it up
mdn main html
this is what i would really do if i'm
confused on when to use a tag i would
type in mdn what i'm confused on and the
technology and you see the very first
link here is the main tag
the main html element represents the
dominant content in the body of a
document the main content area consists
of content is directly to rated to or
expands upon the central topic of a
document or the central functionality of
an application
a document must have mustn't have more
than one main element and it doesn't
have an head industry listed
uh the main content should be unique
content that is repeated across a set of
documents or documents such sections
such as sidebars navigation links
copyright info blah blah blah shouldn't
be included
uh unless it is the main function of the
page so i think that's actually a really
big hint here that a lot of like just
like all the extra stuff should not be
in maine
cool all right so if we look go back and
look at the bbc
all of this stuff
there's no extras
it's not stuff that would be like the
copyright at the bottom or like the
navigational content
so there's no extras
i think it all relates to the core
content of the page which is the most
dominant news
to me this is the most dominant news
according to the bbc
so according to the mdn
my interpretation would be that this is
a good candidate for maine it doesn't
include any extras it's the main core
functionality of the page it's the
dominant content of the page it seems
like a main to me
now you might interpret that differently
and that's entirely okay
right
like i said if i was to give this site
to 10 different front-end developers i'm
getting 10 different sets of code back
people would disagree on main or section
it's about making the best
most rationalized decision that you can
and remember we're baddies we write bad
code don't get hung up on this stuff
just throw a main just use a section it
really won't matter in the long schema
stuff don't let these little nitpicky
decisions actually hold you back from
building real stuff if you're ever
sitting there stressing over a mane or
section you've already messed up
slap a section move on
yeah just do it exactly
cool
but that's how i really do i i i
look up on the mdn to help make my
decision so that's exactly what i would
do all right we got two things here we
gotta hydrate
pizza pretzel cheers to you
and we gotta stretch
all right i'm gonna do a real good
stretch you can't watch me stretch it's
not that kind of stream you know what
you gotta do if you wanna see all that
good content one second
oh yeah
hmm
alrighty
yeah plenty of good content like that on
on younowwhere
alrighty let's continue
let's move into some css
css is
short for cascading style sheets
remember we talked about css being the
style whenever you go to website if you
saw
content that's html
if the content looked good it was
positioned well it had color it had
style that is all css so
where should our css go should we be
writing css in line with our html
should we be writing css in the head of
our html or should our css be in a
separate file
yeah it should be in a separate file now
the the good question here is why should
our css be in a separate file
long humans got it i think first
organization remember we talked about
this golden rule the rule the separation
of concerns
and so when it comes to separation of
concerns we want our html separate from
our css
our csi separate from our javascript and
if we were putting css mixed in line
with our html we wouldn't have that
organization that we need if we were
putting in the head we want to get that
organization
there are some
caveats to this rule though that we're
going to keep everything separate there
is one specific scenario where we put
css in line with our html
where is that
yeah
html5
emails when we actually write emails
we write emails
we
put css in line with our html emails are
actually coded in html and we put the
css in line because they don't really
have access to external style sheets so
you're writing email you can put css
inline
if you work at amazon they have
something called critical path css
amazon has said for every one second
their page load speed increases they
lose a million dollars a day
and so they have a very strong
investment and making sure their page
loads as fast as humanly possible right
and so that idea of putting it a little
bit of css in the head so just the the
landing page loads a little bit faster
and specifically what we call above the
fold like if we look at the bbc page
we can see that news and welcome is
above the fold but sports and weekend
reads are kind of below the fold and so
what what amazon does is they put a
little bit of css to make sure what is
above the fold loads as fast as possible
and then the rest is put into the
regular css file
when would we need to write an htm an
email in html hopefully never
uh
some people that's their jobs like
they'll get hired as email developers
they just focus on writing html emails
it is a
grueling job
it's not grueling it's just it's just
very tedious in my mind uh but we
actually have some folks from last
cohort that that's their job they they
write html emails professionally so yeah
that would be when you when you do it
most people are using some sort of email
writing software like mailchimp or
something like that that comes with
built-in editors that spit out the html
and css for you
how does that pay it pays a lot less
um like 50k ish is what i normally see
and so
there's like kind of like gradients to
to the salaries i've seen at 100 devs so
of all the folks that we've gotten jobs
so far like 45 to 50k is typically like
on the lower end but if you live
somewhere that's like a major metro area
or you're doing something that's not
not like maybe all the way full stack
you're seeing that 45 50k range and so
like html developers are falling into
that that range the next bucket is like
70 to 75
a lot of folks um
without kind of like
that's kind of where the the next
tranche starts so maybe maybe that's
starting to dip the toes into full stack
development you're starting to kind of
take on a little bit more serious role
and a lot of people fell in that 75 to
75k bucket
and then
folks that really kind of
broke through that six figure mark were
folks that were really competent
or felt really strongly in full stack
and maybe added a little bit extra react
onto the mix and so uh those are kind of
the ranges that we've seen so far like
the lower end 45 to 50 with kind of
more specialized skill 70 75 when you're
first hitting that full stack and then
six figures is where you feel really
confident with full stack
and maybe a little bit extra stuff on
top yeah
and the ranges are always dependent on
where you live and things like that
stephanie yay thank you for the fight
get this subs i appreciate it
alrighty
so since we agree that css should be in
a separate file we actually have to link
to our css so from our html we have to
say hey
go find the css file and so here is the
link that we put in the head
of our html this is how we're able to
write our css in a separate file but
have everything connected we put this
link
in the head of our html and that link
tells us where to go to get the css so
we can render everything in the browser
correctly
alrighty
css has a different
syntax what the heck do i mean by syntax
what does syntax mean
yeah
it's the grammar the rules it's the the
way we write our different languages
right so
the html had a syntax
of open and closed carrots
we had our open and closed tags so that
syntax is different than css
in css the syntax is composed
of selecting elements to be styled
and then telling how we want those
elements to be styled
in css we write what are called rules
this entire thing here is called a rule
a rule
is broken down into two very important
parts
the selector
and the declaration block the selector
is the thing that we're going to
actually style
so right here you can see that i'm
selecting all of the paragraphs
so every single paragraph is now going
to get this
style the declaration block which is
everything inside the curly braces is
then broken down into
declarations
and each declaration
has a property
and value
pair
so in this case you can see that i'm
going to select all of the paragraphs
then i'm going to make them color red
and font weight bold
right so i'm making them red and bold
now let's play a little bit of game here
chat
what is this whole thing called
the only thing i just circled what is it
called
yeah it's called a rule
about
about bold would bold be
value nice
about color
property nice
very nice very nice
about
about this
would that be
declaration block nice
how about this
declaration nice
and then the paragraph not including the
parentheses though color based i mean
paragraph would be
our selector exactly so
we select the things we want to style
then we say how we want to style them i
want them to be red and
bold and so we can take if we want
we can take this link
and if we wanted to we could put it at
the top of our html element here our
html file here
typically we have a little bit different
of a structure that we'll see later with
the template and then we could link to a
style sheet that was inside of a css
folder and then called style.css but i
don't have a css folder so i'm just
going to say
style.css let's save this
and right now it's going to look for a
file called style.css
if we look over here in my tree view
do i have a file called style.css
nope i don't so let's go ahead and
create that file you can do command n
for new
or file new it's up to you and i'm
immediately going to save this
as style
dot css
so i'm saving that into my super review
folder
and we can see in the super review
folder there's now style.css
it's on the same right
the same level
right
same level as my html file and so now
this style that css should work
cool
so let's go ahead and just take our h1
and make it color
red
i save that
i can open up my brownie recipe again
and we see that deep dish brownies is
now
red
right it's now red
so we can see i have linked to my style
sheet
and i've written my first rule
right
my first rule
is color
red
beautiful
uh someone asked
what's the difference between a rule and
a declaration block the rule
is the whole thing
right the rule is the whole thing the
declaration block is technically just
what's inside the curly braces so it
separates it separates the selector out
yeah it doesn't include the selector
exactly
you're going to notice that a lot of
stuff like when i asked like this order
matter a lot of times order doesn't
matter in the html or css
like what let what way you put like the
attribute value pairs it's just kind of
convention for a lot of this stuff but
html css and even javascript is pretty
forgiving for a lot of stuff white space
really doesn't matter things like that
alrighty let's keep it pushing
we just played our game of what is this
we know the whole thing
is a rule
a rule is broken up into a selector and
a declaration block declaration block is
broken up into declarations
and our declarations are broken up into
properties and values properties and
values nice
now
css is read from top to bottom however
the stuff that comes
above can be overwritten by the stuff
that comes
below
so here you can see that my paragraphs
start off as red
but further down the cascade they become
blue
this is a pretty powerful bit
right it's a pretty powerful bit
of how css works
poor boy thank you so much for the
gifted subs thank you for being here all
right
it it is a big
pig deal and how css functions because
we can use this cascade to our benefit
we can see that the paragraphs start off
with red and boldness but as we go down
the cascade it changes to blue but it
does not lose its boldness
so we're going to be able to eventually
style a bunch of stuff one way
and then want to change one or two
things and have those changes just
affect one or two things at a time and
not everything and so this cascade is
not only the namesake of css the
cascading style sheets it's also a major
bit of function that we're going to see
as we get into some examples
all right
chat why might we want to link our css
to a separate file
yeah for organization exactly
keep it organized beautiful
all right
we're going to review some simple styles
together
and then once we review our simple
styles uh we will we will code some css
so we're gonna look at some simple
styles then we're gonna take a break and
when we come back we're gonna get our
fingers on the keyboard writing some
actual css
alrighty
so one of the most common things you're
going to want to change
when it comes to css
is color
right is color there's kind of like four
major ways of doing color when it comes
to css
you can use the color keywords like
color red
you can do
a hexadecimal value
you can do an rgb value short for red
green blue alpha channel and you can do
an hsl value hue saturation lightness
alpha
there are all different ways of doing
color
which one you use is really up to you
the color keywords are very simple and
easy to use however you don't really get
all the control because when you say
color red well what kind of red do you
mean crimson red do you mean like red
red right and so the idea here is that
you will use probably different
color
different ways of achieving color based
on your needs
the native way is normally through
hexadecimal values so you'll see a lot
of people that use that
i use rgba because it's easier for my
brain to think about it like if i want
something to be red i know that's gonna
be 255 because it's from 0 to 255 for
each category so i know that
255 0 0 means red if i want it green i
could do 0 255 0 and that would give me
green
right and so the idea here is that i
like rgb as it makes it easier for me to
think about color
i also love this alpha channel
it's anywhere between zero and one
one being a solid color and zero being
like see-through or opaque like the like
how much you can see through it and so
you can get that transparency by using
an alpha channel which is something
pretty cool uh with css3 before he has
to do before we used to do a lot of
hacks i used to create like see through
transparent pixels in photoshop and then
repeat that image across my my elements
to get transparency but now it's built
in with these alpha channels so
know that if you use color keywords
they're great for prototyping
right they're great for prototyping
because you're going to put in red and
then come back and fix the actual color
later but you'll probably pick one of
these three for your color schemes going
forward
one of the other things that we're going
to want to change is our font family so
like what font our text is
now the beautiful thing is that fonts
are actually files right so if you want
a specific font you're gonna need that
font file and you're gonna need to load
that font file for this to work so what
you're seeing here is in my paragraphs
i'm changing the font family to my
favorite font which is source sans pro
and
the way i'm going to be able to change
this to source sans pro
is that i have also already linked to
that font file in the head of my html
if i do not link this font file
this font
will not load so remember if you want to
use special fonts you need the files for
those fonts for it to work and so often
you'll see a font file a font that
you're trying to use here but you're
going to follow it up with some other
fonts why do we follow it up with some
other fonts here
why do we have some other fonts listed
here
yeah
backups exactly backups for some reason
if for some reason sources pro doesn't
load
the browser will try and load helvetica
and then if helvetica doesn't work it'll
try and load sans serif and so the idea
here is that we can have these wonderful
backups that make it so that
if for some reason source sans pro
doesn't load we can still have other
fonts to use
now how do i get fonts i think the
easiest to start off with is by using
google font so fonts.google.com
fonts.google
and then the cool thing is you can
just pick a font so let's find source
sans pro
here's the font
and then
you're going to notice that there are
different weights for each font
each weight is a different file that you
need so i want the regular 400
and i want the bold 700 so i have
selected both of these styles and i can
come up here to this little icon
and what you'll see is the link that i
can include in my head that'll give me
access to those fonts
so i also still have roboto here i'm
just going to remove all the robots i
just have sources pro
and so now i have all of my links for
source sans pro
why do they not load sometimes well it
could be that this link that google
gives you is down which happens very
very rarely but it does happen that's
why you need a backup
what some people will do is they'll
download the fonts onto their server so
that their server can always serve up
the font files so maybe you don't rely
on google you rely on your own fonts but
that's a little bit slower google has
these fonts all around the world on
servers that are probably really close
to your users or better yet the user
might already have it installed on their
machine and so google's just a little
bit faster and that's why people like to
use it
cool
so i would just grab this link i'd put
it in
actually let me copy it boom copy
and i just put at the top of my html
typically in the head and we always
wanted to link it before our style sheet
right
always before our style sheet why do we
need to link the font before our css
file
deluxe hey thank you for the raid
yeah we want to link it because we
actually need that css right we need
that we need it before we can load it in
our css
it looks thank you so much for uh the
the raid where y'all to today
we all working on
welcome raiders
we're doing a full review today
html css javascript
we're reviewing everything so we have a
lot of folks that joined us recently so
we're we're covering all the new stuff
right
we're covering everything going starting
all the way from the beginning so we're
we're at the end of our third hour
and we just got to css
and so we're finishing up css we're
doing layout we're doing all this fun
stuff and then we're getting into
javascript as well
doing some character interaction and
animation work that's dope
best dope for folks that don't know
uh lindalux is an amazing streamer
always live always working on different
aspects of game development if you're
here because you're learning how i know
a lot of you are here because you want
to learn how to code so you can build
video games and so they are definitely
hands down the person to watch if that's
what you're interested in from from
everything from the character rigging
all the way to building the actual games
i can't recommend their channel enough
i'm i'm if i'm on twitch i'm probably
lurking in their channel so let me see
we can do a shout out real quick
wrong place
definitely give them a follow if you
haven't i know we have a lot of new
folks today
you want to make sure right you want to
make sure that you're following good
folks here
on on twitch right like when when we're
not live you can watch somebody like
actually building stuff and and picking
up some words of wisdom from them in
their chat and uh
and alex is definitely the best that we
got
yeah we definitely rated them in the
past and yeah one of my favorite people
to raid for sure
already
we have
a little bit let's do let's do let's
cover this last topic then we'll take
our break
so
we have a
we have our link to our our actual font
and we need that before our
css file and the reason why we need it
before is because we're trying to use
that font
in that css file so if we don't have the
font then we can't actually use it
inside the file so that's why the order
matters
ammar saeed you found the right place
then welcome
could i swear i was following them but
no yeah make sure you're following them
for sure absolutely 100 percent
one of the best streamers definitely one
of the best dreamers in our category one
of the best streamers on twitch
always live too
so definitely you can somebody can check
out every day
great
community let me see if i can spam this
a little bit
there we go
beautiful
give them a follow if you haven't
already make my day please give them a
follow
alrighty
can you go back to the slide that talks
about the cascade absolutely
got it
alrighty
so we talked about this cascade
this cascade is the idea that what comes
above
can be overwritten with by what comes
below
and so up here you see we have the color
red but then further down we have the
color blue and with this example it's
kind of hard to be like all right why
would i ever use this but imagine we had
a bunch of paragraphs that we wanted to
be red and bold but then we had a few
paragraphs that we wanted to be blue but
we didn't want them to lose the boldness
we could target these other paragraphs
and make them blue and we'd have to
change up the selector maybe we'd use a
class or an id or something to target
that other paragraph specifically which
we'll get to in a second but we'd be
able to use that cascade to not lose the
boldness but to be able to change the
color later on
so we talked about color we talked about
fonts let's talk about weight
so boldness is font weight and so if we
want something to be bold we're going to
use a larger font weight so here i have
a larger font weight of 700. this is
this is where most fonts become bold and
so
if i want my fonts to be bold
i need that specific font weight which
means i also need that specific file for
that font to actually render
right
right and so when i was on google fonts
i asked for
the regular 400
and the 700. you can actually see that
in the link i know it's really tiny it
says weight 400 and 700. if i wanted the
900 i would need to include that as well
if i wanted the 300 i would need to
include that as well
and so if i want all those different
weights i would have to make sure i have
them on my link now as you add more
weights you increase your load time so
people don't go really wild and having
all these different fonts all these
different weights
one of my really close designer friends
they always say if you have more than
two fonts on the page you [__] up and
then if you kind of go wild with the
weights you're messing up as well so
despairing
already now
we talked about color we talked about
weight we talked about
fonts
right
but there's so many other things that
you might want to know how to do you
might want to know how to italicize
stuff you might want to know how to bold
stuff other than the way that we just
showed you how to do it we want to learn
all these different things maybe you
want to review the stuff that you
already feel confident in just to make a
better decision like i did with maine
when i didn't know exactly what maine
was asking for i went to the mdn so
always use the mdn to look up these
things right so
if you need help remembering html you
need help remembering css
use the
mdn it's the best resource we have gives
you all the details it'll walk you
through everything that you need
if you're brand new and you're trying to
get caught up on this html and css stuff
we have
what four to six classes on html and css
that you can go back and watch
part of the homework if you start over
from the beginning with the follow along
materials is to read shayhau which
breaks all this stuff down into further
detail but what we're going to do
is we are going to take a break and when
we come back from that break we're going
to get our fingers on the keyboard we're
going to write some actual css and we're
going to have some fun all right so when
we come back from this break we're going
to actually start getting our fingers on
the keyboard so get your vs code set up
make sure you have the
the files downloaded from the follow on
materials channel
if you're new here you can do
exclamation point discord join our
discord agree to the rules and once you
agree to the rules you will be able to
see all these extra channels that open
up there's the following materials
channel grab the materials unzip it open
up in vs code and then join us back
how would you copy the font family to
the text editor i just copy and pasted
it so google gave me the font i just
highlighted it
copy and then i pasted it in my text
editor
you know
all right folks
get a good break in this one really take
the five minutes please hydrate stretch
we're just getting started it's three
hours we're just getting started folks
so we're gonna be in this one for the
long haul please take your break
seriously don't keep sitting here if
you're not able if you're able to please
get up move around hydrate and i'll see
you all in five
i'm gonna run ads to new folks out to
sit through the ads when they join us
do
all right folks 30 seconds left
all right folks come on back come on
back
alrighty
yeah what are your thoughts on css
preprocessors like less than sas
i think they're great i use them uh i
don't recommend learning them until you
have to for your job
because each company is different you
might use something different for each
one and so it's just not worth it to put
in that extra energy and then not need
it on the job
it's really disrespectful how you handle
bob uh we've had a conversation and he
prefers the chin lift
i don't know why it's his choice
maybe cousy maybe
already folks
i'd like to start off each new round
each new hour with questions from the
slido you always do exclamation point
asks to type in your question and to
upload the ones that are already there
the top question right now is is jquery
something
worth learning still or is it outdated i
think at this point it's pretty outdated
uh
with the newer versions of javascript
pretty much every major
benefit that jquery gave us except for a
slightly
slightly easier syntax has been
accomplished with just regular
javascript so cross browser
compatibility is there all the really
big things that jquery helped solve when
it first came out is now kind of handled
by just regular old javascript so
i think it's definitely outdated not
something i would worry about picking up
unless you're on a job or with a client
that has a pretty heavy jquery code base
but it's not hard to pick up though if
you need to later on
jquery is still in job listings yeah
you're going to see on a lot of stuff
and also job listings kind of are bs
i think one of the big things you'll
notice from reading the celebrations
channel from folks that got jobs is to
just straight up ignore job listings
we've had students that have gotten
senior roles we've had folks that got
roles where they didn't know anything
that was on the job listing it kind of
just just doesn't make sense to pay
attention to them so don't
we'll get there when we get to our when
we get to our applying the jobs phase
we'll talk through all that
will we review get soon it seems like
would be easier way to submit homework
and keep track of our portfolios and
client work yeah end of this month uh we
will be covering git so i don't like
covering git and github early on i think
it's one of the things that a lot of
other people like when they're trying to
learn get really lost in the sauce on
and it's too much and it's overwhelming
and so i don't like teaching it until
later on i still think it's i don't
think it's super beneficial until you
know kind of what you're doing a little
bit code wise and so uh end of this
month we'll be covering git and github
and
we have a fabulous sponsor that's right
we're going to talk more this week on
tuesday about our sponsors that are
coming up but we have a sponsor for our
class so
yeah big news i guess
all right let's do
let's do two more
all right i still struggle with flexbox
can we touch on that yeah we're going to
touch a little bit of flexbox today
we're going to do a little bit of
flexbox i think a lot of people really
want to do like a full flexbox class
and so once we get through javascript
i'm going to do a full class on flexbox
and we'll come back and we'll all of our
labs will be done in flexbox and we'll
incorporate javascript into those
layouts
because i think some people
it's just not something you need for a
job right it's just it's just it's nice
to have you should definitely learn it
we definitely covered the basics of it
and a lot of you have done some simple
layouts with it that's good enough to
continue on and so we'll learn enough
javascript to be dangerous and then
we'll incorporate layouts in flexbox
with javascript so we'll come back to it
and we'll build full layouts with it and
incorporate javascript into those
layouts too
but it's like one of those things i i
don't know why but the cohorts always
get real like all my students really get
hung up on it when it just doesn't it's
just like not something you should be
investing super super a lot of time into
know the basics not do simple layouts
with it and then move on yeah
can you discuss how to deliver the site
to a client i'm confused and scared to
take a client don't know how to deliver
um you just you i mean you've code out
the site and then you put it on netlify
that's it
just drag the site to netlify.com drop
it's live for your client and they're
good to go
uh so you would code your site on your
own account on your own netlify site
like show them everything as it's live
on your server if they're happy with it
tell them to create a netlify account or
help them create a netlify account and
then just drag the code to their server
once they've paid you in full that's it
our nut device hosting servers is free
and unlimited their basic stuff is free
it's not unlimited if you hit like some
like ridiculous amount of traffic you
have to start paying
yeah so i think like
when 100 devs kind of went viral this
second like the second round i like
netlify is like you got to start paying
us money now
i've been on netlife for years and
they're eventually just like oh you got
to pay us money now
which i'm i'm happy to pay because i've
gotten so much out of them for free for
so long yeah so once you get like
certain amounts of traffic stuff like
that you gotta start paying
what if they don't want netlify then
they can pay and figure it out
themselves
q can you explain what stack we are
learning we are learning the mern stack
which is
we're learning
javascript or full stack javascript i
don't actually like saying stack i just
like saying full stack javascript we're
learning html css javascript then we'll
learn node mongodb and express and we'll
put a little bit of react cherries on
top
how are people finding the time to get
through all the this homework doing the
networking and finding time to look for
clients
am i defective no you're not defective
a lot of folks this is a big time
commitment right you're putting at least
six hours in for class and then a
minimum a minimum 10 hours outside of
class
right minimum 10 hours outside of class
some people are putting more like 20
hours outside of class so 10 to 20 hours
outside of class is a pretty big time
commitment
the thing that i'll say is that a lot of
folks are not effective with the time
that they do have
a lot of folks are not
don't and it's just it's just the human
it's just human nature to not be
effective with our time when it comes to
learning to not be able to actually have
strong amounts of focus for the hours
that we do have and so one of the things
you have to work on is making sure that
your active recall is sharp that your
space repetition is sharp make sure that
you are not going into your days like an
accident do you have every day planned
out
if you do not have your week planned out
then you are messing up
all right if you don't know what topics
you're going to try to get through on on
each day
like if you if you don't know how you're
going to like wait what your goal to
learn that day is or what your goal to
learn on wednesday is your goal to learn
on saturdays like if you don't know what
that is at the beginning of each week
you're doomed to fail because you're
going to go into the week like an
accident you're going to over invest in
one area too much or or skip a day or
something like that and then be off
track and then get nowhere
and so you have to make sure you're
planning out your weeks you have to make
sure you know what your game plan for
each day is when i like the way i do
mine is i look at my month and i figure
out here's what i want to get done for
the month
and then every sunday typically i plan
out my week
and then every night before i go to bed
i write down the three things i'm gonna
get done the next day
and so i know every day the things i
have to get done and i know what my week
looks like i know what my month looks
like if i do not do that
it's all
my mom's garbage i won't get stuff done
i i won't achieve the things i wanted to
achieve and so i think a lot of folks
when they say like that they're taking
time they're not they're they're going
into their days like an accident they
haven't planned out their days they're
not doing their active recall they're
not doing their space repetition that's
why your days aren't effective it's not
that you're defective it's that a lot of
times the planning
is is more important than the doing
so you got to make sure that you're
planning out that you're that you're
taking you're setting yourself up to
succeed and not to fail
yeah
and then you got to really time box your
day you got to use pomodoro
you got to be like all right i'm going
to only spend 20 minutes on this topic
if it doesn't make sense you got to get
help that's the last big thing is most
folks fail because they don't ask for
help they don't get on discord every
single every single question on discord
right now has an answer sometimes
they're not the best answers sometimes
you have to ask again to get better
answers but pretty much every single
question has an answer so if you're
stuck things aren't making sense you
need to ask really good questions and
get better at asking questions right and
so make sure you're planning out your
days you're using active recall make
sure you're using space repetition make
sure you're asking questions make sure
you're not spending more than 20 20
minutes on a topic that doesn't make
sense without getting help if you're not
asking for help that's that's how like
you're not defective you're probably not
asking for help you're probably not
planning out your days you're probably
not using the best learning resources
you have at your disposal which are
active recall and space repetition
now doing all that and fitting it into
your time that's a whole other beast
right
but that's why you have to plan out your
days and your weeks to to make sure you
can fit in that time and a lot of times
what a lot of a lot of my students
they have they try out for they try two
hours a day that's kind of what i
recommend at least two hours a day
and you're doing it every day saturdays
and sundays include it a lot of folks
have to figure out where they squeeze in
those two hours some folks wake up early
which i actually recommend i think
working in the morning can help a lot of
folks because at the end of the day if
you're working you're too tired there's
nothing's going to sink in it's not
going to it's not going to digest in
your brain and so you want to make sure
that you're figuring out when your two
hours makes the most sense
you recommend two hours at once i do
because i think for some folks your
pomodoro like you have to find the
pomodoro that works for you
some folks pomodoro is like
15 15
some is 30 30 some is 45 15 because
different people get into a flow state
at different times
so for me it took me a really long time
but i'm best at like 45 15 where i work
for 45 minutes straight and then i spend
i take 15 minutes off because i find for
a lot of problems it takes me around 20
minutes to really get my head wrapped
around it and then start writing good
code and i wouldn't want to stop at like
30 minutes and be like done so i i some
days will do 30 30 but most recently
i've been doing 45 15.
i'll work for 45 minutes and then i'll
take 15 off
so that's how i answer that question but
remember
time is a privilege that's why i always
say this might not be your time
literally because of time that's okay
you also might only have an hour a day
that's okay
you don't have to finish this in a
certain number of days there's always
the catch-up crew
the videos always go on youtube if you
need to go at your own pace that's okay
this is your career for the rest of your
life
in in five years you're not gonna be
like i really i'm really upset that i
took an extra extra three months to
figure this stuff out
it really just won't matter
right if you think about the grand
scheme of your life
it taking three more months just won't
matter in the long run
so don't be afraid for it to take three
more months to go at your own pace a
little bit to realize that you might not
have the full privilege of time that you
might need to do an hour a day instead
of two hours a day
and then yeah don't don't waste time not
asking for help
cool all right
we got through some questions today
let's keep pushing
what's the chance of us landing
six-figure jobs um i don't i'm i don't
like
the idea of like
aiming for six-figure jobs i also don't
like the idea of aiming for fang
i i i like my students to aim for
being comfortable
right making money that's comfortable
for them
making enough money to support
themselves and their family
having a happy stable job uh not a job
that stresses them out a job that meets
their needs maybe they have kids that
need the work from home right i i don't
like folks to have these like arbitrary
goals at the end of the day that don't
like increase their happiness or like
make it so that they can actually have
something achievable the making 90k
versus 100k like
it depends on who you are and where
you're at in life it just doesn't matter
like that's not the
the the thing i want folks to focus on i
want you to have a healthy stable career
that supports you and your loved ones
where you're excited to show up for work
every day that's the type of job i want
you to get and having these skills
enable you to have
access to those types of jobs
now do we have a lot of folks that got
six figure jobs last cohort yes we did
we had dozens of them
but should that be your goal because
some youtuber told you so i don't know
that's up to you
alrighty we have a some basic css so
let's go ahead and
if we look at the starter code we have
i'm going to close these other files
here and i'm going to go to little i'm
already literally on
[Music]
we have this basic css
and so if you open up the html and the
css
you'll see here
uh there are some instructions in the
html
make this text blue underline and have a
gold background make this text purple
bold it and have an orange border so go
ahead and
actually follow these instructions and
write out your basic css in your style
sheet okay so i'm going to go ahead and
put
let's put
i know this one is probably if you're
new here this might be really hard if
you're if you're doing this review it
might be really easy so we're gonna put
we're just gonna put four minutes on the
clock then we're gonna go over it
together so get your fingers loose
if you are if you've been doing this for
a while try and flex a little bit on
yourself try and add some more stuff too
but if you're brand new this will be
pretty hard
try it and then we'll go over it
together
the css should be blank this is called
basic css
basic css is the folder and it is the
html and the css files you're writing in
that css file
moon
make sure you agree to our rules on
discord if you do not agree to the rules
you won't see the follow along materials
channel once you agree to the rules
you'll see the follow along materials
channel and the zip will be there for
today's class
i need defeats that it's wild how much i
struggled with this in the beginning
yeah
the beauty of coming back and doing
review right
things do get easier with time so if
you're new look at that comment in the
beginning it was hard but now
bruising
i mean this is basic css
what up mitch
all right star give it a try you know
you're new to css star still give it a
try you can look at the slides
exclamation point slides if you need it
right
you can copy exactly how we did it in
the slides and change it up for your
purposes
hey it's greg glad to hear that week i
knew nothing about programming
and i have a paid client in just three
months let's go
do the work the program will work for
you it's no joke underdevelop's changed
my life hey glad to hear that week but
you got a client
i said i'm a starter so all i'm doing is
the color hey that's good if all you can
do is color do color we'll do the rest
together we're going to go over
everything and the solutions will be on
discord afterwards as well so do what
you can do get your practice in and then
we'll go over it together
good luck with the bathroom smith
coding man says i haven't been able to
get my first clients through friends or
family what should this next steps be
there it's in that class we talked about
what to do after friends and family go
back to those slides go back to the
point in class and walk through it
there's like
10 different things you can be doing
got some dunzo's i see you avp wooden
fish
logan said done i wouldn't even know how
to open a css file at the beginning of
this year counting this is a w on the
board hell yeah let's go
you always organize your code blocks
with the same order i do but it doesn't
really matter too much waste it's up to
you
lots of dones right at the timer
all right let's go ahead and
bring this off the page and let's go
over it together if you're still
frantically typing it's time to stop
it's all right let's go over it together
now
we could we could swap from our html to
our css so we could like go back and
forth right um what i'm going to do is
i'm just going to copy all of this stuff
and then i'm just going to put it as a
comment in my css so comments are pretty
cool because what it enables you to do
all right so now all this stuff is
commented out what enables me to do is i
can read this stuff
but my browser won't actually read it so
it won't try to run this as css you can
see it's like this like lovely green
color
so the way i did this is i just
highlighted it all
and on max it's command forward slash uh
on windows i'm sure it's like control
forward slash and just it just makes it
that we can see it but the the computer
or your browser won't actually read it
now we don't have to kind of keep
jumping around
all right
so let's look at this first one
actually i'll do it i'll do it in each
segment i'll comment on each segment
just make a little bit easier
all right so i'll comment this segment
and this segment
then this segment that way i can put my
answers in line
do shift tab here there we go shift tab
to move it to the to the left and then
comment it out beautiful all right
make this text blue
underlined and have a gold background uh
so since it was the h1 i can select the
h1
every princess had done so proud of
myself i'm proud of you too congrats on
finishing
all right
make this text blue so we'll do color
blue we're going to use the color
keyword here we could use hexadecimal
rgba hsla whatever we want to use but
we'll just use the color keyword
underline how do i underline stuff
anybody remember the the the property
value pair for underline
beautiful text decoration you can see my
my editor trying to help me here text
decoration
and i can do
underline beautiful
now if i didn't know how to underline
something where could i have gone
where could i have gone where could i
have gone if i didn't know how to
do text education underlying yeah i went
to the mdn now what if i gave it the
good old google
what if i gave it the good old mdn try i
i scoured google i've scoured mdn i
still couldn't figure it out where could
i go
where could i go
discord absolutely thank you that's my
point discord and in discord i would say
hey
i gave it to google i went to the mdn i
still can't figure out how to underline
can somebody show me how and somewhat
would help you out
someone said message leon directly hell
no
i don't read my dms i don't read my
emails
if you want you want an answer from me
there's two ways there's the ask leon
channel i respond to every single
message in that channel as long as it's
actually a question for me and not some
like code help thing that you can use to
help channels for that or mod mail if
it's too sensitive
yeah
alrighty
all right we can head
color blue underline and have a gold
background so let's do background
background attachment get out of here
background gold beautiful
let's go ahead and open this up in the
browser and make sure we're actually
doing what we're supposed to be doing
beautiful look at that that gold
background blue text and underline
all right see the next one
make this text purple
bold it
25 pixels
and have an orange border all right so
we're going to select our h2
notice how i always do my h2 and then i
open my curly braces
right open my curly braces open and
close and then i go back in and i put my
property value pairs or my declarations
all right make this text purple color
purple beautiful uh font weight
bold it
or bold sorry
and then font size
25 pixels
we'll learn to use m's and rems later on
today
and then an orange border so border is a
little interesting uh there is an older
way of doing it where we do border size
border color border type as three
separate entities but with the newer
versions of css aka css3 we can all do
it on one line so we can go ahead and do
two pixels solid
orange
beautiful
what up blah
welcome welcome
yeah we got color purple
we got it bolded we got 25 pixels and an
orange border let's make sure
everything's looking clean
beautiful looks good to me
oh the blog again i love when y'all say
hi to blah when they pop in
but uh they threw down with those study
communities i can't tell you how much
work they put in
like that that was that was a lot of
work and they threw down for sure uh
every week they're trying to make your
experience better so i i agree with
bladder goat that's 100 down thank you
so much for everything you do to help us
all right next we got a section
make this section a width of 50
height of 200 pixels
a background of gray a border of black
and a paragraph text of white
all right so we'll make the width
with
beautiful remember you always need your
colon in between the property and the
value and you have to end your line with
a semicolon it's not like javascript
where you can just get rid of the
semicolon these days with css you need
it or else the next declaration won't
run properly so if i forget the
semicolon here and i try to go to the
next line it just it just won't work
all right
height we'll do height 200 pixels
beautiful
and then a background of gray
cool
and a border of black
we're going to do border let's do 3
pixels
30 pixels 3 pixels
solid black beautiful
and
this is the paragraph text of white
so maybe we can just try
color white to see if it inherits
because sometimes you'll notice that the
text can inherit from its container so
we'll throw white on here and see if it
inherits the paragraphs but if not we'll
have to go ahead and set the paragraph
out to white exactly let's go and save
it let's refresh
beautiful we can see that that white did
inherit to the paragraph text at the
black border uh
gray background white text and it has
some width and some height you see the
width is 50 the height is 200 pixels
looking good
i was struggling remember the property
something just clicked and i got it
today hey good to hear chan
all right last one here is the footer
all right
make this footer have a black background
with a light green border and this text
20 pixels white plus a font family of
roboto
all right let's go and do
uh
black background so we'll do background
black beautiful
with a light green border
do 5 pixels solid and what did you all
use for light green
would you all use for light green
light green
beautiful light green
all right and then i just want to be a
little bit more specific i want to make
the h3 inside the footer so how can i
target the h3 inside the footer we're
going to see this in a few seconds we're
going to get into specificity and how we
can target things based on relationships
but how could i target the h3
that is inside the footer
yeah two kind of ways really i could do
footer
h3 or i could even do the
the the direct way but we'll just do
space for now
and all that's saying is target the h3
that is inside the footer we're going to
see this in detail in a few seconds here
but we're saying target the h that's
inside of the footer that's what that
relationship that space means
h3 inside of the footer if we go and
look at our html this h3
is inside of the footer that's a
relationship there relationship selector
cool
and so we want to make this text a font
size
of 20 pixels
and we want it to be white so we can do
color
uh white
and then we want the font family
to be
roboto robot bow and then we want to
back up so we can do helvetica
and then we'll just have a sans serif at
the end
just just as a backup backup right in
case roboto doesn't work helvetica
doesn't work
uh it'll be our it'll be our follow over
and if we save this the only thing right
now is that we don't have roboto as a
font like if we go to our html is it in
there
no we can see that we don't have roboto
as a font so we need to go get that
roboto font so let's go to google fonts
i'm going to clear out the fonts that i
already have so i'm going to remove all
the sources pro
let's go ahead go to fonts
let's search for roboto oh it's right
here so i'm going to click on it
and then i'm just going to grab the 400
because that's all i need for right now
select this style
i'm going to grab the link
boom copy
go back to my html before the link to my
css file
there we go it's the link to roboto and
so now if i save all this
and i go back
and we refresh
boom we can even see that this text is
very different looking than the rest of
the text you can see the curvature
on this t versus this t so we know this
is actually roboto that's coming through
all right
oh what's the difference between
background and background color
with css3 we got shorthand for a lot of
this stuff
you could easily do background hyphen
color it's just a little old that's all
it still works it's just with css3 we
got newer ways of doing all this stuff
and kind of like shortcuts almost so
instead of doing font color just color
works they're doing background color
background works
border all on one line
yeah
joe flew hey thank you so much for the
10 gifted subs i appreciate that thank
you for being here that's wild
thank you so much
thank you for the gift of subs
i folks got subs hey appreciate you
thank you for being here
telling kind of exactly what we just
said there's there's shortcuts you can
use for a lot of this stuff
um and some of them that you don't
really use shortcuts for
just part of the specification
cool
all right let's keep pushing folks
uh was there anything else left in the
css let me just double check
i know i think we got everything that
was in the footer
20 pixels white font from the robot
though it looks like we're good so like
i said
you don't have to
to frantically type along well we'll go
over all this stuff together i'll and
i'll share all the solutions after after
class as well so
all the solutions will be posted on
discord after we're done reviewing
all right let's keep pushing
let's talk about relationships we saw
that
where i said how do i get the h3 that
was inside of the footer right
we wanted to be able to kind of go a
little bit more deeper with how we're
targeting elements so that we can style
them uniquely
and
we saw that i wanted to target that h3
was inside the footer but not all the
h3s
just the h3 that was inside of the
footer and so
there are different ways to to build out
or target these elements based on their
relationships there's a couple key
relationships that you need to know when
it comes to css
the first one is the direct parent child
selector in this case
we have a selector here
section right carrot p
whenever you see this carrot is the
direct
child
and what that means is we're going to
try and find a paragraph
that is directly inside of a section and
that's what we see here we can see hello
twitch
is a paragraph that is directly inside
of a section
right paragraph
is directly inside of the section so
this is a direct
parent child relationship the paragraph
is the child of a section and it is the
direct child there's nothing else
wrapping around this paragraph
other than the section
beautiful
here we have
a parent-child relationship a parent
child selector but it does not have to
be direct it can be any steps in between
so here
we have a paragraph
that is inside of a section and that's
what we're looking for so here i have a
paragraph we can see that it's inside of
an article and then it is inside the
section
this works
because it does not need to be a direct
parent child
hello creation hey what's going on how
you doing thanks for stopping by
you all haven't followed calo creation
we rate them recently definitely give
them a follow for sure
great streamer
so here no carrot
right no carrot
and so we want to make sure
that we understand that it doesn't
matter where it's at right we can see
that this paragraph is inside the
article and then it's inside the section
it still works but if we were to do this
we would add this carrot this would no
longer turn red because it would no
longer work because it's not a direct
child right it's not a direct child it
is the child of an article so as soon as
we throw that carrot in this no longer
works it's no longer a direct child
cool
yeah allison ads are normal
it's not a thing that we do on our end
it's a twitch thing and so when we take
breaks we run ads to hopefully help
folks not get them when they join but
it's not something we have in our
control it's the one of the things of
being on twitch
we do put all of our stuff normally on
youtube uh which is we haven't monetized
that so it's ad free
cool all right so we have
direct parent child and then just plain
old parent child
and then we also have direct sibling
right and so here we have
hello youtube
which comes immediately after hello
twitch
and so when we have this paragraph
plus paragraph what we are saying is
find me a paragraph whose immediate
sibling like on the same level of it is
is another paragraph so this paragraph
has an immediate sibling that is a
paragraph so it would turn red
this hello twitch
would not turn red why
why would hello twitch not turn red
color creation a thank you for this up
it doesn't have a sibling exactly
there's no other paragraph up here for
it to be the direct sibling of so hello
twitch will not work here
only hello youtube would go red because
it's the only one that has a direct
sibling above it
cool
let's actually code this out let's let's
use let's put this in the practice it's
too hard when it's theoretical let's
let's see it let's build it let's play
with it and so we have uh some
relationships that we can code out and
so in our starter code we have
relationship css that's the one we're
opening relationship css we have an html
file and a css file and we're going to
play around with it a little bit
i'm going to play around with a little
bit i'll give everybody a second to open
it up i want you to try and code along
with me
relationship css
alrighty
so
i want to target
all of my h2s
right
i want to target all my h2s thank you
snake i want to target all my h2s and
make them red so you can see i have some
h2s here
and h2 here and h2 here so let's make
all of them red
and then once we play around this we'll
take our break so h2
make it color
red
we save it
and let's go ahead and open this in the
browser
as we can see all the h2s are red
right world zebra unicorn duck
now
i
want
all of the h2s inside this section
to be
blue but i still want all the other
sections to be sorry all the other h2s
to be red
so i want these two to be blue
but everything else to stay red so go
ahead and take 30 seconds or so to try
that out on your own i want world and
zebra blue
but unicorn and duck to stay red go for
it
hey funny hope you're doing well
good to see you
what up dan
just a few more seconds just to try it
out on your own
all right let's take a look at this
blue hey thank you for another 10 gifts
it subs that's wild thank you so much
for being here appreciate you
falling out
thank you so much
all right we have the h2s
right the h2s that are inside the
section if we look they're different
from every other h2 because this one is
directly inside of an article and this
one is directly inside of an article two
so we could say
section
direct child h2 and target these two
all right so let's go and try that
let's go ahead and do section
direct child h2 and make it color
blue
if we did everything right
we should see the first two is blue and
the second two is red
beautiful
alrighty
so if we look
why
why did these two s stay red
why did these two stay red why didn't
they also turn blue
they're not the direct children so the
cascade didn't override those two right
those two are still getting their red
color from this rule here
this rule did not apply to them right
this rule that gave them all red
made sure that they were all red but
then two of those h2s were overridden in
the cascade to be
blue
so if we look
these two were overwritten to be blue
in the cascade they started off as red
and then they became blue
further down in the cascade now why do i
need to use the direct child here why
can't i just do space
what happens if i do let's save this and
see what happens
section h2
huh
unicorn
goes
blue
why did unicorn go blue
in this scenario let's look at our html
why did unicorn go blue when i got rid
of the direct
child um
exactly
unicorn is still a descendant
of the section if we look
h2
then an article and then a section
so when h2 is still a child this unicorn
is still a child of this section it's
just not a what child it's not just a
it's just not a what child
exactly it's just not a direct child
this unicorn is the direct child of the
article
it is a child of the section just not a
direct child if we look
these two are direct children of the
section look they come immediately
inside the section so these two
are direct
children of the section beautiful
all right so let's go back let's fix
that up
all right
love it
now one more here and then we'll take
our break
how can i target
how could i target
duck
to be purple
i'm gonna target duck to be purple
i don't want unicorn to be purple so i
can't i just can't come in and do this i
just can't come in and do
i just i just can't come in and do that
right if i do that and i do color
purple right and i save it and i come
back
you see that unicorn and duck go purple
right
so how do i make just
duck go purple ah yeah
we can we can use everything at our
disposal we can say all right
we want an article
right we want an article that's
different from this article
well how is this article different well
this article has a sibling that is a
section
this article
has no siblings there's nothing else
here inside the section so i can do
section
plus article h2
let's come back here let's do section
plus article h2 so what this is saying
is give me an h2 it is the direct child
of an article and that article must be
the direct sibling of a section and
that's what we actually see here we see
all right
h2
is the direct child of the article
and this article is the direct
sibling of this section so it should
work
let's save it let's go back
let's refresh beautiful so now we can
see
that the world
and zebra are blue
do the cascade unicorn keeps its
original red from the very first rule
and then the cascade we override duck to
be purple
lovely
first try
exactly
alrighty
let's go ahead and put five minutes on
the clock
when we come back we're gonna spend some
time looking at ids and classes we're
gonna talk about specificity and then
we're gonna get into layouts we're gonna
look at some floats a little bit of
flexbox so uh lots of good stuff to come
back to but let's take our five minute
break if you're new around these parts
we'd like to be healthy at the top of
the hour let's take a break if you're
able please get up move around hydrate
and then we'll be back in five minutes
i'm also going to run ads so new folks
hopefully don't see ads when they join
us
and as always if you need the solutions
they'll be on discord after our review
already five minutes on the clock
you deserve this take a good break
please
do
alrighty welcome back everyone
hope you had a good break we'll be able
to get a stretching if you're able to
are we going to be doing alumni t-spills
this cohort yeah we had one at the
beginning
uh my goal is to do
two things like i want two more things
that we're kind of gearing up to um
we
just had 30 plus
alumni sign up to be alumni mentors so
they'll be joining the study communities
uh and then my goal is to have have them
kind of also host kind of like
one-on-ones on discord where you can get
more help ask more questions
and so
we have all them that are rolling out um
we're hopefully getting them live this
week and so they've already signed up
we've assigned them to different groups
and yeah so we're gonna we're gonna get
them to come through
and then
i i wanna have like two different spaces
i'm not sure if it's gonna be on discord
or
uh twitter spaces but i wanna have like
one where we bring in people once a week
probably on fridays folks that are kind
of that want to help the community but
have some really
interesting stuff to share so um folks
that are kind of like experts in the
field we get to hear from them and then
uh sometimes it'll be like experts
sometimes it'll be alumni sometimes
it'll be like a mix and so i want to
have that like maybe once a week maybe
like every friday i'm planning on and
then i want to have like another space
that's just kind of
moderated not by myself or mods but
maybe like alumni just for like cohort
to like share how things are going how
they're feeling stuff like that and so
those are kind of the two bigger spaces
i want to figure out how to create and
so
hopefully this this upcoming week we'll
figure all that out as well yeah we kind
of had to we we did all the study
communities we're kind of seeing how all
that shakes out and
now we can kind of work on the next big
project which are kind of those spaces
yeah
different welcome back hey
i always like to start off each top of
the hour with some
questions
uh ms rose said i didn't know amazon
gave a free sub each month whoo yeah
if you have amazon prime you get a free
sub and all the subs go to supporting
the nonprofit i work at during the day
uh we're getting ready to make like our
next big check to them so i'm really
excited to share that hopefully like in
the next week or so we'll share where
we're at for the next big like tranche
it's pretty big which is wild
yeah so each time you use your amazon
prime you you make jeff bezos cry
it's completely free to you if you have
if you have uh amazon prime yeah i
appreciate all the other primes
you said at the beginning of the cohort
that we are learning to code to make our
own product that there are easier
programs to complete
what programs let me read this again
if you're if we are learning to code to
make our own product
there are easier programs to complete oh
i think you mean like if you're if
you're here to like learn how to code to
like not get a job but to build
something uh yeah there's probably like
no code platforms that probably a little
bit easier like bubble or things that
can help you build an mvp so where you
can make enough money to then hire
engineers so i think if you're just
trying to build your own products
there's probably a way where you don't
have to actually learn how to code to
get that product built
but could still build an mvp to like
demonstrate your idea and get your first
few customers
but i'm not sure if that's what you're
talking about or not or what i was
talking about or
not if we are behind and trying to catch
up are we also expected to have a
contract by the end of march that's the
goal
right that's the goal you you don't need
any skills to get a contract
right like you you you could you could
have zero coding ability and get a
contract like it has nothing to do with
your ability to code because you could
always figure that stuff out once you
start so you don't need to have finished
the project you just need a signed
contract so
you actually could just watch that class
and call it a day and be able to get the
contract
do you have any suggestions for people
that are struggling to find a client
have you done everything we talked about
in that class
i think a lot of folks try like one or
two things and then then they kind of
give up
have you tried everything have you
dialed for dollars have you done all the
things that might be uncomfortable and
hard to do
it's very different than if you just
posted on facebook and nothing happened
yeah so make sure you watch the
freelancing class it's up on youtube uh
make sure you walk through we kind of we
did step by step like do this then this
then this then this if you've done all
those things that's a different problem
if you've done all those things then
post an ask leon i'm happy to kind of
hear what went well what didn't go well
uh sam posted kind of saying that you
don't need contracts and that he doesn't
use them anymore seems like a terrible
idea illegally can you weigh in
so i think folks that
read that post didn't read what they
were talking like what sam was
mentioning sam was talking about for
like
very small like mom and pop clients they
don't use contracts anymore
um
so they're saying like if like they're
if they're like a small like restaurant
that he won't make a client i make a
contract that that that he'll just go
ahead and put all that into the proposal
that's okay
um contracts for me are never about
getting paid
contracts for me are never about like
the only thing i'm really worried about
in a contract is indemnification so
meaning that like
if their website causes them to lose
orders they have a harder time suing me
and a lot of people are like no one's
gonna sue over a thousand dollar website
i i don't i don't believe that um it's
there to protect you and it's also there
to say what happens when things go wrong
and so for me a lot of people are like
well if it's a thousand dollars they're
not going to see you they can small
claims court in a lot of states is is up
to 5 000 and so it even works the other
way too like if for some reason they
stiff you on the last payment or
something like that you can very easily
file in small claims court and if you
have a contract in place the judge
almost automatically like gives you
the default judgment and without that
contract in place if they sue you in
small claims then you pretty much
automatically lose
and so for me i like to have a contract
in place it's nothing to do with getting
paid on time because that's that's based
on like me taking a deposit not doing
work without deposit it's really just
there so that when things go south we
already know what to do and that
indemnification clause is in place so
that if they do take me to small claims
the judge will look and be like well you
sign an indemnification clause and and
that's it so for me that's kind of
my thoughts on it uh and that's why i
still use contracts for sure is i i want
that i want that indemnification at the
end of the day
but i definitely get their point of
saying
if you're working with smaller clients
you don't you don't really need super
in-depth contracts there's even somebody
that i know that's an angel investor
that does like
100 000 deals and doesn't use contracts
just an email and that kind of works out
the same way
it's just a personal thing for me at the
end of the day where i feel like i like
that comfort of knowing that if i do go
to court at least it's there
it's better than not being there to me
and i i don't
lose
um i don't i don't lose clients in the
contract phase
uh is a contract really doesn't scare my
clients because my contracts are always
like in plain english and i'm the one
walking them through it so that they
don't i don't i don't really like i look
at my my freelancing numbers and i never
lose folks um
i never lose folks in that part of the
process so for me
it's it's worth it i don't have any
downside but i have potentially a lot of
upside
and then of course
i'm not a lawyer so
all of this is just the ramblings of
someone that's been there before
judge judy always rules based on
contracts if there are any exactly and a
lot of judges are the same way you'll go
to small claims the judge will read the
contract and go oh well
it says right here what happens done and
you just move on
yeah
so it's up to you i i get where they're
coming from i'm a little bit i'm a
little bit different and i i've been
through the ringer a few times so i like
to have it
you know
let's do one more then we're going to
jump into more css goodness
for those of us that are unable to
freelance due to conflicts with work
restrictions religious or other reasons
what are alternatives to meet the
requirements i will talk more about the
alternatives like in actual class times
i know we don't have everyone here for
office hours
but the alternatives are contributing to
a free software or open source project
where you will join one of those
projects you'll see an open ticket
you'll contribute to that ticket and
then that that counts also volunteering
counts and for me volunteering is almost
exactly the same process except you just
don't get paid at the end you still have
a proposal you still have a contract you
still have all that stuff right you
still have all that stuff
um
and so yeah volunteering or free
software is the way around it if you're
not able to
yeah
but you get so much out of having a paid
client that don't like don't just be
like oh i don't want to do it and try
doing something else it really is such a
huge win to have a paid client on your
resume because it really does help blow
away the stink
the the open source free software
projects and the volunteering does help
but paid clients are definitely the best
yeah
cool all right folks let's move on here
we got some more css to look at and then
we're going to do some layouts and then
we're going to get to javascript
eventually we're on what we're going
into our
it's our fifth hour
alrighty
oh this is this is our fourth hour going
into five yeah all right ids and classes
ids are used for targeting one element
and only one element the beautiful thing
is we saw with our selectors with our
with our regular kind of just element
selectors we can target a lot of the
elements at one
time but when we want to get specific
and target only one element and only one
element at a time
we can use ids so here on this paragraph
you can see the very first kind of
attribute value pair that we've actually
really seen we saw that's true we saw
source and alt on our images but here is
an attribute of id
and its value of zebra right and so what
we're doing here is we are saying
i want
to target this element and only this
element when you use an id
ids can only be used once
per page so since i've given this
paragraph the id of zebra this paragraph
cannot get another id and i cannot use
zebra anywhere else on my html document
that makes it so when i come down here
and i write my selector
octothorpe zebra that's how i target the
id
it means i'm only ever going to target
this paragraph and there's no chance to
target anything
else
right so when you want to target one
specific
right
one specific thing that's when you use
the id
now when i'm styling with html so when
i'm starting with my css i don't really
use ids that much ids become a lot more
beneficial to me when i get to
javascript and i'm trying to attach like
event listeners to one element like just
click that thing that's when ids come
back for me but when i'm styling i
typically stop at classes classes
can be reused
each element can have multiple classes
so right here you can see this paragraph
has the class of bob it could also have
the class of dominoes could also have
the class of rubber ducky so each
element can have multiple classes and
the beautiful thing is you can reuse
those classes across elements so you can
see that both of these have the class of
bob so both of them would be colored red
right so the idea is i can put these
classes on any element that i want and
target all of those elements at the same
time
beautiful so ids
target one element
classes can target as many elements as
you want and we can reuse that class
across multiple elements the other thing
you'll notice is that an element can
also have an id
and then have a whole string of classes
if it wants as well
alrighty
when we're talking about these elements
something we have to remember
is that as we are writing out our css we
notice that we started everything here
we started everything here making all of
our h2s
red
then in the cascade as we went further
down we made some of them blue
and then one of them purple
i was able
to override the red to be blue
and purple because the selectors
further down
had the same
or greater
specificity
right the same or greater specificity
if i do not have the same or greater
specificity i cannot override stuff as i
go down the cascade so what the heck
does specificity mean what it means is
that there's actually a point value
assigned to each thing in our selector
right
so if we go back and look we're going to
give tags
i always hit end sometimes by accident
look at all the stuff we've done so far
we should be proud of ourselves look at
all this that's wild all right we're
gonna go ahead and give tags one point
we're gonna give classes 10 points
ids a hundred and other which we'll see
in a second a thousand points of
specificity
right so if we look at this selector
how many points of specificity does this
rule have
how many points of specificity is does
this rule have
good job chat people are saying 110
let's take a look at it
there are no tags here
but there is
one class we can see the dot that's how
we know it's a class
so we have zero tags
we have one class
and we have one id
this has a hundred and ten points of
specificity that means
if i ever wanted to override this color
in the cascade with like a rule that
came below it
i would need at least
110 points of specificity or else i
could not override
right so if we go back and we look
how many points of specificity does this
selector have here
yes one point of specificity exactly
so if i want to override this color red
how many points of specificity do i need
i would need at least one or more so
it's always the same or more right so
here how many points do i have here
my point of specificity
two exactly so since this is two that's
one or more points of specificity so
i'm able to override the red because of
the specificity i have on line four same
thing here how many points of
specificity do i have here on line seven
i have three right i have age two an
article in a section that's three points
three tags or three points of
specificity and so since i have three
points specificity that is way more than
enough
to override the red color that's in this
h2 so that's where specificity comes
into play
if i was to do something wild like this
let's say let's say i gave um
let's go back to
[Music]
let's go ahead and then all of our h2s
on all of our h2s i'm going to give them
a class
of
make
red
right so all of my h2s now have this
class of make red make red make red make
red make red if i was to come back to my
css
and say
make
red instead of h2
let's see what happens
let me refresh
beautiful
they're all
red
they're all red the
the the
this h2 no longer becomes blue this h2
no longer becomes purple
why
specificity exactly
how many points of specificity is make
red
it's 10 points of specificity so is is
there a way for
two points to override 10
no is there a way for three points to
override 10 no so since this is more
specific
these
two rules cannot override in the cascade
they do not have the same or greater
specificity
that's where this comes into play we
need to have the same or greater
specificity if we want to use the
cascade
beautiful
we change it back
you get all the stuff we had going back
as well
all right let's take a look at this one
how many points of specificity does this
rule have
yep
121 let's see let's see
people are saying 121 let's take a look
all right
how many tags do we have well we have
one tag here the paragraph so one
how many classes do we have we have one
two classes so two classes
and we have
one id
this has a 121 points of specificity
beautiful
uh our points a literal measure of
override meaning if i had 11 tags long
would it override the class yes if you
had 10 actual elements sorry 11 10 or
more actual elements you could override
a class in the cascade so that's
important to keep in mind right you
could have
10 tags to override a class
10 classes to override an id
and 10 ids to override another
cool
beautiful so 121
when two classes are connected like
domino's bob what does it mean it means
that they're on the same element so if
we look
dominoes
and bob there's no space here so it's
not like a parent-child relationship
we're saying find me a paragraph
that has the class of domino's pizza
and has the class of bob and if we look
here we go we have a paragraph
that has the class of domino's pizza
and the class of bob
so no space means that you're finding
something that has all of that stuff a
paragraph and both of those classes so
you're trying to find a paragraph that's
both of those classes that is inside is
something that has the idea of diet coke
and so here's the idea of diet coke so
this paragraph is inside this section so
it works
does class ordering matter not really no
cool
alrighty
let's keep pushing
how many points of specificity does this
rule have here
1200 all right let's take a look
how many tags do we have
zero
how many classes do we have
how many ids do we have
two
so if you said 200 you got got
because there's also this bang important
which is worth a thousand so this is
1200 points of specificity
practice i'm not getting got today not
today
not today leon i said huzzah
so a thousand
plus 200 so 1200 points of specificity
now we have this other here
so bang important is for other
and we would throw in that bang
important because it makes this super
specific there's really only one time i
actually advocate using bang important
and that is when
your client project is due in an hour
and you can't get some specific css to
work so you just throw bang important on
it to get it to work and you'll fix it
after the client meeting that's the only
uh that's the only time i would ever say
use bang important is because it
overrides the cascade so much that
you'll never be able to to create styles
that override it and so a lot of times
if people are using bang important
you're sitting there like banging your
head against the keyboard trying to
figure out like why your css is not
working why the cascade is not working
and it's because the rule is too
specific
right and since it's too specific it
just you just can't override it
right
um
there's one other really thing that
we've talked about today that gives you
this a thousand points of specificity
what's the other thing that has that a
thousand points of specificity
yeah inline style so like putting style
in line with your html that's also a
bang important
yeah
let's get some specificity practice in
so we have a specificity practice
inside of our
code here
so if you look for specificity practice
that's what we're going to work on
specificity practice
there's html and css
if you open up the css there are some
things that want you to do
make only rhino and zebra blue make only
hufflepuff gold
please select duck with the highest
level specificity and then rhino with
the highest level of specificity
possible
let's go ahead and put
about four minutes on the clock here
try and go as much as you can into it
and then we're gonna go over it together
the four minutes on the clock here this
is specificity practice uh in the super
review folder if you're new all the
materials are on discord and our follow
along materials channel exclamation
point discord here in chat agree to the
rules you'll see the following materials
channel download it unzip it open an mvs
code
alrighty
i've added
uh
remember we'll always have the solutions
on discord after class so if things are
taking a while that's okay
i think we're on class
18 now yeah class 18
um but like four of those were like
networking type classes so really like
14 classes
do i use bam i don't personally know
i have in the past
thank you bandit appreciate you
there's so many uh subs and primes today
thank you everybody i really appreciate
it
tourboy vr chronic brent
you know sound
k carms
flovor geno sound a damn coconut
mezro
blue what the 20 gifted sub says wild
snake from state farm that's hilarious
and funny hey funny with the 17 most
funny that's wild thank you for the 17
most that's huge
i've been this happy about sunday school
in a mad minute me too
what happens with the group projects not
sure what you mean woven
i seen the obi-wan kenobi trailer no
what when that come out
leon everyone i actually hate css but i
love and understand it would you advise
me to look more on the ux ui side of
things ui maybe not ux if you want to
still be an engineer yeah
but front end sure so people enjoy it up
to you
uh favorite dbz character krillin
it looks good all right i'll watch the
trailer after after class
off remits well hey good morning welcome
ui is the stuff that you like see and
click on like the actual buttons and
stuff user experience is like how
individuals move through your content
and how they experience it
all right folks a few seconds left
good here grady thank you for being here
all right folks come on back let's go
through this together
you just use google calendar plan out
your weeks i use google calendar to plan
out my day to the hour every day if it's
not on my google calendar i don't do it
at one point it was so bad i was
scheduling my bathroom breaks on google
calendar
yeah i have i have executive functioning
issues um that go along with my
attention issues
and so i i need something that tells me
where to be how to be what to be and how
to do it uh and i need that at all times
or else i just don't do stuff
um so i will i will literally
i will literally read wikipedia for 10
hours straight
if i don't have something that tells me
to go do something so my google calendar
is set up like by the hour and i get a
little chime that tells me to do the
next thing and then i i do it and i
never don't do it and so that's that's
what works for me
and if i didn't have that i just won't
do stuff i'll just whatever my brain is
on at that moment is the only thing that
that'll happen
cool all right please make only rhino
and zebra blue let's take a look at
rhino and zebra
all right so rhino and zebra both have
id so we could use two ids here um but
they also they also have the class of
africa and four legs
so let's use that class of four legs
four legs
and we're gonna make them blue so we'll
do color blue
i saved it you can see i don't have that
blue circle so you know i saved and then
let's open this in the browser
beautiful rhino and zebra are blue
please make only hufflepuff gold
let's see
so we have best house as the id harry
potter triwizard champ badger so i could
use all these classes but if i only ever
want hufflepuff to be gold
then i would want it to use the idea of
best house so i'm going to use the idea
of best house here
best house
and we'll do color
gold
sure it works
beautiful
cool
all right so i think we got those two
and there are many different ways that
we could have made that blue there are
other things we could have done to make
it gold right we could have used the
classes we could have just used the id
it's up to you
why didn't you use the ids for the first
one because that would have been more
work we would have had to done two ids
we would have had to have done the idea
of rhino and the idea of zebra we could
have done it right we could have we
could have done
uh id
rhino and id
zebra whenever you have the comma it
means target both of these elements at
the same time
but that's a little bit more work so i
just did the class of 4 likes
if we did the class of top
we could have done that too
because color would inherit but if you
want to be actually like actually
targeting the h2 you would have done
like dot top space h2 to target both of
these h2s
yeah so for me just four legs or africa
probably would have been the shortest
one to use
top works but only because of
inheritance
alrighty
please select duck with the highest
level of specificity
possible
please select duck with the highest
level specificity possible so let's go
and take a look at duck
all right
here's duck duck has two classes
likes to quack and fight 10 or 100 so
i'm going to take both of these first
and let's start there and we know it's
an h2 i'm going to do h2 likes to quack
fight 10 or 100 no spaces because it is
an h2 that has both of those classes so
let's start there
h2
likes the quack
and then the fight 100 or 10. that's
that's the start
right and then all right what's what's
next after the h2
the h2 is inside of an article that also
has the class r ducks dinosaurs
let's go ahead and copy that
class r ducks dinosaurs true so let's go
ahead and
do article
dot our ducks dinosaurs space right
because
this h2 is inside of the article so we
need that parent child relationship
which is controlled by the space the h2
that is inside the article beautiful
all right this article has a sibling
that is the section with the class of
middle so let's do that
section the class of middle
and it's a sibling
remember this is this is like super
super overkill you would never ever do
this it's just a fun exercise to see if
you can get as specific as possible
all right so
that article
the article was the sibling to this
section
and this section has a sibling with the
id sorry with the class of top
why don't i keep going that way here we
go so let's go ahead and do another
another sibling here section
with the class of top
and then that section
has a sibling which is the h1 with the
id of high
so high
h1
so
high
it's still still a sibling and then this
h1
is inside the body
and the body is the sibling of the head
and the head is inside the html so let's
do
body
and then we'll do
head
plus body
and then all this is inside of the html
element
this is just being being wild right
and let's just make this color
purple just to make sure it works
let's open it
alright it works we can see duck went to
purple
so
i think this has the most specificity if
we go back and look
uh the
h2 with both the classes
inside the article with the class that's
the sibling of the section with the
class of middle as a sibling of the
section with the class at top there's a
sibling with the h1 with the idea of
high that's inside the body which is a
sibling to the head which is inside the
html element and then
yes i need one more thing thank you chat
bang important
second try
cold version of spirit bomb
[Music]
i just did my dance
uh so
that is i think the most specificity we
could have on duck and then rhino is
kind of the same game so i'll leave that
for you to figure out but duck i think
is pretty fun alrighty
let's keep it moving
we've actually done this last one in
class so if you need it you can go back
to that class but
i think we got enough from that one
alrighty next thing we have is the
box
model box model so we're going to take a
look at the box model we'll do some box
model practice and then we'll take a
break and we'll do a longer break for
this one i think we'll do 10 minutes for
this next break just because we've been
going for five hours and i want folks to
be able to have a little bit longer of a
break grab some food walk the dogs do
what you got to do so we'll cover the
box model and then we'll do a little bit
longer of a of a break
cool and then we'll get the floats
then after floats we still got all and
flexbox and we got a bunch of javascript
to do
and we also got media queries so we got
floats media queries um
and then we get to javascript so it's
gonna be a long day folks
gotta walk a goldfish exactly all right
so
every element in web development is a
what everything when it comes to html
and css every single element is a what
every single thing is a
box exactly everything is a box
and to calculate the width of that box
you include the width of the element
you include its padding on both sides
and you include its border on both sides
it's how you calculate the width of an
element
it's the same thing for the height
you take the height of that element you
take its padding on the top and bottom
and then you take its border on the top
or bottom now the margin can come in and
push this box model around i don't
technically keep it as part of the box
model i see it more as the bully that
pushes the box model around
cool
so let's go ahead and draw out
the box model one second if i pull up
the whiteboard
some folks like to
have some shenanigans
all right
so let's draw out our
our
our box here so let's start off with
the actual let's say we have a section
all right so we have a section
and we're going to give it a height
of 100 pixels
and a width
so here we actually see that draw out
here is our section
with a height and width of 100 pixels
now we wouldn't actually be able to see
this box at first
right wouldn't be able to see this but i
love all the nun spin uh for folks that
are new here
uh my mom is the queen of finding free
stuff to do
i always have something to do every
weekend and for a long time my mom would
drop me off with these nuns every
saturday for a free arts program
and so my my art should be way better
than it is basically because i took free
art classes for years with the nuns and
so don't blame me blame the nuns if my
my art isn't pretty
all right
cool so we have our section we have a
height and a width of 100 pixels we
won't actually be able to see it because
there's no like border or anything here
but if i was to ask you how wide this
element is how wide is this element chat
how wide is it at the moment
100 pixels nice let's go ahead and add
some border
let's add some border
let's uh add our border as sorry let's
add some padding
let's add our padding as a green
and let's add a padding of 20 pixels
on all sides so this would add padding
on all sides
so we could do padding on all sides
and if i add padding on all sides
how wide is our element now
yeah it's 140 pixels wide exactly
because we have 100 pixels
for the width
we have 20 on the left and 20 on the
right so that means we have something
that is a 140 pixels wide
let's go ahead and
add some border and that border we're
going to make let's say five pixels wide
so border
pixels
solid
red
beautiful
so that means i'm going to have
five pixels of border
on each side
and so how wide is our element now
yeah
150 pixels wide because
we have 100 pixels in the middle
20 on each side for padding that's 140
already
145 150
pixels wide now this is important
because let's say we had a
let's say we had a
let's do a different color here let's
say we had a
200 pixel
container
right
200 pixel container how many of our
sections could we fit inside of that 200
pixel container
one
exactly
yeah only one because we only have
we only have
room
for 150 pixels if we put two of these
that'd be 300 pixels that would be 300
pixels right 300 pixels
inside of a 200 pixel container it can't
work and so we would see
it break to a new line so it's important
to understand how the box model works
because without it we don't know how
much stuff we can sit next to each other
right and so we would need to be able to
put these two elements next to each
other if we wanted to so if let's say
this container was 300 pixels wide
then we'd be able to fit two of them
next to each other
right we got to fit two of them next to
each other but right now if it's a 200
pixel we only get one so it's important
to understand this box model
right because if we don't know the
widths we don't have to sit stuff next
to each other exactly demi them mj said
this is where i messed up my knobs not
paying attention to the list of
everything this can get into trouble
especially with things like navigation
if you don't know how much stuff each
thing is taking up in terms of space
especially if you're not using things
like flexbox so important understand the
box model let's take a look at some
practice with the box model one second
all righty
so for our box model we drawled it out
let's go ahead and code it out so there
is a box model practice
box model practice
and so we open up that box model
practice
gonna close everything else out
in the box model practice there are some
things that you have here
here we go actually i think the stuff
that's in the css is wrong so in the box
model practice is not the stuff that's
in the css file it's actually stuff
that's in the html file
in the html file there's some things
here that should be in the style.css
so in style.css it should be
different
i'll just copy it from the
copy it from the html
and paste it into the css that's what
you want to work on
all right go ahead i'm going to put four
minutes on the clock we'll go over it
together and then we'll take our
extended break so you can do what you
gotta do
how about it for four minutes
you got this if you're new you need
materials during our discord exclamation
point discord agree to the rules there's
a following materials channel with ariel
the starter code that we're doing today
this is box model practice you're doing
what's in the html make the h1 30 pixels
a little bit padding practicing your box
model
you got this
what do you think about php it's great i
mean it's so much so much of the web is
built on php wordpress laravel
i don't really get the php hate
i think it's definitely evolved more and
i think laravel is kind of like industry
standard i wish laravel existed for
every language
thanks flicks
laravel is a like a web application
framework i guess you could call it that
does a lot of the heavy lifting for
building web applications like all the
stuff that you need to handle like i
don't know
email subscriptions like all stuff you
need to build a web application that
like is not actual just like the logic
of the application but all the other
stuff that just modern apps have laravel
handles for you
hey civic doing good thanks for stopping
by
minute 30 left we'll finish this up
together and we'll take a longer break
so it's like rails ruby yeah but even
better
blitz and redwoods similar yeah
super mature
thoughts on rust it's pretty cool one of
these days i'm going to sit down and
and try and learn it get better at it
i'm really interested in web assembly
and so like
rust the webassembly is something that
i'd be really interested in
nick once we get through full stack
javascript like once we get through the
back end yeah
do you eat a snack during the breaks
normally i don't eat until the very end
yeah i'm weird like that i also like
typically eat like really like one big
meal a day
all right folks come on back come on
back
all right let's take a look at these and
we'll take our longer break
yep specific that's what i do i do
intermittent fasting
it helps my brain
not just like for weight loss or
anything like that i think the research
is a little mixed on that at the moment
but i definitely feel
my brain functions better when i
intermittently fast
cool
alrighty
please make the h1 30 pixels
a little bit of
padding on the left and a thin red
border
all right so h1 i'm going to select that
30 pixels so we can do font size
30 pixels
beautiful a little bit of padding on the
left so we can do padding
we do padding
left
and we can do just as little so we'll do
five pixels and then we'll do a thin red
border so border
and we'll keep it thin
one pixels solid
red beautiful
now we did padding left here there's
also something else that we can do
that's pretty nifty which is
padding gets applied
in
a clockwise order so
top right bottom left so you could
actually do something like this we could
do zero on the top zero on the right
zero on the bottom and five pixels on
the left that would work exactly the
same as doing padding left so just a
little little trick to keep in mind but
i think this works let's save this up
let's open this in the browser
gotta click over here open the browser
all right
none of our css is being applied here
that i can see so let's take a look
oh cause i didn't comment the rest of
this stuff out
i didn't comment any of these things out
so it's like what the heck is going on
in this css file it's like freaking out
like doesn't know how to render the html
that's inside the css
all right here we go
let's comment all these things out let's
save and we should be good
there we go beautiful so we got the
little bit of padding on the left
we got the red border and we can always
use the inspect tool to see it second
try
so let's go ahead and inspect it
and let's go ahead and take a look
i'm gonna close this here if you scroll
down you can actually see in the
inspector you just right click inspect
in the elements tab and you scroll down
you can actually see all right here's
the actual element here's the padding
and notice the five here
that five that's letting us know that
there's five pixels of padding and you
can actually see the little bit of green
here for the padding when i hover over
it
we can see that the padding is there
we can see that our border is one pixel
on all sides and we can actually see the
margin that's there too
did we did we write any margin where the
heck did that come from
where did the margin come from
we write any margin
yeah it's default from the browser
exactly default from the browser all
right please make the h2
font size of 20 pixels we'll do font
size
25 px
with padding on the top and bottom so
we'll use that padding trick that i just
showed you padding so top right bottom
left so we'll do
um
how much is on the top we'll say 10
pixels and the other cool thing is we
can do 10 pixel zero and what this will
do it'll it'll repeat right so it'll do
0 10 0. so we did 10 on the top zero on
the right 10 on the bottom zero on the
left i'm going to remember all this anki
paying off exactly spidey dan exactly
all right that should handle our padding
thick gold border
uh 10 pixels
solid
gold
and margin on the top and bottom we can
do the same thing that we did with the
padding it works for margin as well
we'll do we'll do 30 pixels zero so
that'll give us
30 pixels on the top zero on the right
30 on the bottom and zero on the left
cool
let's look at this
please make spans have a thin black
border
span
one pixel
solid black
we'll get through this then we'll take
our longer break
a little bit of padding
do five pixels on each side and we'll
make the color
blue
beautiful
all right spans have a thin black border
a little padding
and they are blue
and this last one here
section
i have a width
of 25
a
height now 200 pixels
centered
how did you all center your your section
do margin zero auto you can do text to
line
oh sorry it's not text so let's do
margin
zero auto
and then thin border
we'll go ahead and do border
one pixel
solid
purple
beautiful
with 25
200 pixels tall
margin zero auto what that's saying is
saying put zero on the top and bottom
and automatically figure it out on the
left and right
beautiful i think all this looks good
let's see how it looks in the browser
oh yeah look at us go
nice and centered got the the borders
going everything looks good to me
and got everything going here
beautiful all right i think we got it
i'll leave this up for a second so folks
can see i know we went through that one
a little fast
alrighty
let's go ahead and put a
longer
timer on here we're going to go i think
for
10 minutes
so that should give you a little more
time to grab some water hydrate kiss
some babies do what you got to do
and we'll be back in 10. when we come
back in 10 minutes
we are going to move into
uh layout so we'll look at some layouts
we'll do some floats we'll do some
flexbox and then we'll do some
responsiveness with media queries and
then we'll be ready to gear up for some
javascript so 10 minutes on the timer we
come back we're doing layouts we'll
actually look at our starter template
first and then we'll do layout so we'll
put 10 minutes on the clock here
all right have some fun
see in a few minutes
you don't get got we go get
even five hours deep on a sunday let's
go
you're
i came for the replay and it's going
live that's what we do we we ain't
outside we inside but we online that's
what i'm talking about we online
let's go turn up
b sweatshirt is so apparent
i'll take it let's go beast mode
this is uh
grand master maurice ashley uh chess
grandmaster
that's their merch
all right folks welcome back welcome
back
what's one of the what's the longest
stream ever did
one of our reviews went
nine hours
i want to say there was an 11 hour one
too
i can't remember if that 11 or 12 was
broken up into two
i know we definitely did a nine
where's hundreds merch coming soon
coming soon folks
we've been sharing some pretty good
mock-ups on twitter it's been pretty
cool to see
there's the one that used like the
hundred emoji with devs that was fire
can you have a full website while giving
it a height yeah you can because height
comes from one of two ways either comes
from the elements inside of the content
or from giving it a height so you can
get height from just the stuff that's
inside of your container right so a lot
of text and things like that that could
give it height just as much as setting a
fixed height could be
who does the thumbnails for youtube now
i do
i'm just putting some placeholders for
now figure out how to make them better
in the future but i've just been having
fun with it
no worries miracle no worries
all right
let's get through some questions in the
slido
and
then i will jump back into the starter
template and some layout
all right
can we do a review of the responsive
stuff yep that's coming up
m's and all that fun stuff coming up
for those of us playing catch-up where
there be any way to watch the office
hour videos uh yeah they're they're only
on twitch and they're only on there for
60 days
it's one of the perks of paying
off doing the boot camp live there's
very few things that separate the
youtube following along experience from
the live experience and one of them is
office hours so
i really do like to encourage folks to
participate in the community to show up
even just for office hours and so even
if you're part of the ketchup crew
there's no reason why you can't come to
office hours a lot of times just
answering questions most of the time
it's not even like technical stuff it's
just about how to get jobs how to
freelance things like that and so
yeah don't don't feel like you
don't feel like you have to skip office
hours if you're still in the ketchup
crew in fact office hours is probably
more for you than everyone so
yeah office hours we don't really put
them on youtube just because
um youtube really doesn't like them
because the the like the watch time is
typically lower and so then it tanks
like everyone finding the other videos
it's weird youtube is weird i don't
really get the algorithm behind youtube
but if i put too much stuff that people
don't watch then our videos don't get
shown to anyone which is weird
so it's a game that we play but also i i
really do like it as an incentive to
follow along live
so
maybe one day we'll do like an unlisted
i have them all so maybe we'll do like
an unlisted uh youtube playlist but for
now it's an incentive to show up
the projects listed in our portfolios do
employers drill down to make sure the
website projects are real companies
no
99 of the time they won't ask
the one percent of the time you just
chalk that up to an l and keep moving
um but yeah 99 of the time they don't
care i i like blah's answer no laugh out
loud they don't care yeah nobody cares
they they you got to realize that your
portfolio's just to get just to get into
the first step
no one's hiring you based off your
portfolio all this stuff is just to make
you pass a sniff test
that
means that you're worthy enough in their
eyes which is a shitty thing to say uh
to interview and so all this is just to
pass that first sniff test and get you
into the interview where your technical
skills or your behavioral skills shine
through to get you the job
i still don't understand arrow functions
we haven't covered arrow functions in
class yet we'll get there
can we get a week or two off to get
ourselves in order it'd be helpful for
us with mentally family stuff and beyond
our control
i want to go to distance breathing room
so that's what this week was for
this week was to give folks a little bit
more time to catch up and to not have
new class so that's what this week was
for we'll do another week like this in
the future where it's mainly just
networking
uh so
that's what this week was for and we'll
probably have another one soon
once once we get a little bit further
through javascript we'll take uh like
another week similar between this and um
back end
are we going to be covering apis in this
course absolutely
yeah
pretty close to apis too like in two
weeks or so
maybe less
for homework what do we need to do in
code academy
is it one through six or sections one
through six overall
um the js one through six like all the
javascript stuff
what are real world practical uses for
loops whenever you need to do the same
thing over and over again is when you
use a loop
um counting use a loop
uh
doing certain things x number of times
you use a loop so like let's say
you want to show something to a user
multiple times you would use a loop
but uh we'll get into more loops and
stuff later on when we get to
when we get to objects and we're getting
like data back from from like an api
like let's say we want it
let's say we could ask the dominoes for
all of my orders
right
and domino's gives me back like 10 000
orders
i want to be able to show all those
orders to you as the user of my new
domino's website
and what i'll do is i'll loop through
all the orders to put the stuff into the
dom for you to see
right so you would see
this date i ordered that this data
ordered that to stay ordered that so i
would use a loop to loop through and
show you all of my order history
sometimes these songs bop oh i love them
all right
getting that second wave energy so let's
let's lean into it
alrighty
so we have this starter template let's
take a look at the starter template
together blah thank you for the
hydration cheers to you
thank you
voice
okay look at the starter template it was
in the materials for today
so we have this template
and in the template are a few things i
like to point out just that they're
there this template is what i recommend
folks just kind of start with for any of
the projects that we do kind of going
forward that are html css and javascript
related
so in the template there are some
goodies that we've covered
the big thing here that i want to talk
about is that there's this normalize
link here
and if we look inside the css folder
right if you look in the css folder
there's the reset and normalize
arnold all the materials are on our
discord exclamation point discord agreed
to the rules and then the following
materials channel you'll see everything
that you need
so when you are kind of making that big
decision as to this is probably one of
the first big decisions as a front-end
developer
right
you will
need to
determine whether or not you're going to
use normalize reset or skip them both
right and so
what happens is we saw a lot today this
default styling coming from the browser
right we saw that the h1 was big bold
black and beautiful much like myself we
saw some margin coming in and so all of
this default styling is just coming from
the browser and the the wild thing is
that each browser might be slightly
different
and so what normalize does is it says
you know what i like those default
stylings but i want them to be the same
across every
browser and so what normalize does is it
really does just normalize all of those
default stylings across every
browser
the other option that a lot of people
will use is something called reset and
reset scorches the earth it gets rid of
all of the default styling
everything goes back to zero your spans
look just like your h1 and you build up
from scratch
so it's up to you
i've been in the html and css game for
too long i'm too used to the default
styling so i use normalize just to make
sure it's consistent
but a lot of my students they typically
prefer reset just because they don't
think about it they start from zero
it's up to you
and then we link to our normal style
sheet instead of our normal style sheet
we got some of the the hacks oh this is
old i forgot to fix this uh get rid of
this moz prefix if you're using this
template the one i shared in our actual
class had this fixed but you don't want
that moz prefix you just want bots box
sizing border box uh which will help you
uh later on today
uh we have our clear fix and our clear
it's kind of all the hacks that we've
gone over in class so far are all in
this template the box sizing border box
comes into play when you're calculating
with
do you include padding and border in
those with calculations or not if you're
using box sizing border box you won't so
something to keep in mind uh we'll see
clear and clear fix in a in a in a
minute
cool
it's just a mistake the moz i just
forgot to pull it off i used to back in
the day you had to have vendor prefixes
for all of them for box sizing so that's
like really old in there the the code i
shared i don't know why this one's older
and has it but the one from class
doesn't have it
yeah
all right so we looked at the template
let's look at some layouts now
we've seen two different ways of doing
layouts and we're going to see them
again today at first we're going to talk
about floats
now i am an oddball when it comes to
teaching floats i really like to teach
volts because i think it forces you to
become intimate with the box model to
really understand how things come
together in the browser and even if you
use flexbox you're going to eventually
get into things like flex basis where
you still have to know your percentages
anyway and so i like starting with
floats
one of the most common things that i get
from my students
is leon thank you for helping me
thank you for making me learn floats
because they joined a company where
their first job was to convert an old
code base to a new one or they got a
freelancing client that had old code and
guess what it's all floats and guess
what floats are way harder to learn than
flexbox so
i love floats i love teaching floats and
i want all my students to learn them
because guess what you're going to run
into them in the wild and when you do
think of me
all right
with floats
you're really doing one thing and one
thing only you're telling something to
go up
and to a corner and so if i float
something to the left like this aside
i'm telling you to go up as much as it
can and to the left as much as it can
and what it winds up happening is that
it winds up sticking in this corner same
thing if i was to float something to the
right it would go up as much as it can
go and to the right as much as it can go
trying to get into this corner
and the beautiful thing
is that when you float stuff the hack
that winds up happening is as they're
all trying to get into this corner
things wind up sitting next to each
other right so if we had let's say three
boxes
and we floated them what they would all
do would be try to get into that corner
so this box would come up as far as it
could go and then to the left as far as
it could go
and then this box would go up as much as
it could go and to the left as much as
it can go so just by floating those
boxes they wind up sitting next to each
other because they're all trying to get
into that corner
right
beautiful
all right let's look at some simple
layouts
right let's look at some simple layouts
so we have everybody ganks until leon
brings out the flows exactly so here's
our first layout uh we're looking at
this layout uh what we what type of html
element would we use here
header
how about this down here
twitter
how about these three
sections nice
how about these two
sections yeah all right build it
use your template
build this layout
use floats
please use floats we'll do it with flex
in a second
so build this layout with floats i want
to put
four minutes on the clock here and then
we'll go over it together if you're
brand new you've never used floats
before that's okay
try
writing out the html
try writing out the html and then we'll
go over it together four minutes on the
clock and we're gonna go over this
layout together you got this
at least get the html that we just
talked through
okay fox just did this homework earlier
today hey glad you did
neko chats they go both the same way so
both to the left are both to the right
i prefer going to the left so the order
stays the same
can we use classes sure you can use
glasses
we touch on grid not today but in the
future
once once we learn javascript when we
come back we'll go deeper on flexbox and
we'll touch a little bit of grid
you know
i want us to learn enough javascript to
do like drop downs and hidden menus and
all that fun stuff
and then we'll come back and build real
sights with it um some real layouts
and we'll use flex and we'll touch a
little bit on grid we won't go too deep
into it though
i common case everything i don't care
my bad yeah i write bad code
xbox is more common but folks use grid
now too
forgot so much adding so much to anki
today hey i'd love to hear that
it's a great day to add to anki
i want you to do the html and the css
but if you're new just do the html
first try nice
minute left minute left
got this dig deep
reese's peanut putter cup thank you for
the prime
well thank you for the 13 months
they are thank you for the three
i suffer what's good baby whoo i grew
the three
you're rusty that's okay that's why
we're here hbc
got some dunzo's coming in all right i
see y'all
wasn't this 15 minutes of pain before it
was look at you doing in four minutes
today
used to be used to be 15 we did it in
seven now we're doing it in four that's
progress baby
ruby can't believe how much faster i'm
doing this compared to the first time
hey turn up all right let's go through
this together
i'm just going to use my template we got
our header footer and then five sections
so
let's go in here
go ahead and do our header
and then we're going to have our
sections
and we know that we need we need
five of these so i'm going to copy and
paste it four more times
boom boom boom
boom
and then our footer beautiful
all right and the only other thing here
that is that we need to realize is that
these like last two sections are
different than these top three so
instead of doing like some wild
relationship selector um
i'll just give them a class
and
i'll give the class of bottom
there you go
cool
so now we have our header our footer our
three sections and our two sections with
the class of
bottom beautiful
all right so we have our layout so we
could do something like this we could do
our header
give them a height of 100 pixels we
could give them a border uh one pixel
solid black so we could see it and we
could repeat the same thing down here
with footer
right we could read the same thing with
footer
but instead of doing that i'm just gonna
go ahead and put
a comma and then footer so what that
does is it repeats
the same styling on both the header and
the footer and this helps us stay more
dry exactly do not repeat yourself and
so this helps us
not having to repeat ourselves let's
save it and make sure we can see our
header and footer on the page
let's go ahead and open this in the
browser
wrong browser
all right open in the browser there we
go
all right we have our header and footer
on the page we're good let's keep
pushing
so now let's do our sections and let's
just get all the sections on the page as
well
sections
we know they're going to have a height
let's get a little different let's go
ahead like 200 pixels
uh let's give them a whiff to start and
we know that with if we're looking at
the first like three
and we're looking at the slides we know
that they're going to be at least what
size
33.33 33 repeating of course right
so we could just make all the sections
33 and then we'll make these bottom two
fifty percent
let's go ahead and do with oh
33.333 percent repeating of course
and
let's just save this for now and see
where we're at
cool we can't see them we see all the
space they took up but we can't see them
because we didn't give them border let's
go ahead and give them a border
cool
let's go back and refresh there we go we
got one two three four five we got our
five sections here we see that they're
all taking up uh 33 with but they're not
sitting next to each other
right they're not sitting next to each
other how can i get them to sit next to
each other the old school way
yeah float left
can you use the calc function you can
something newer in css where you don't
have to do the calculation your head you
can do calc and then
divide it by three
um
we gotta float them left so they sit
next to each other beautiful
and now we have at least
we see the first three sitting next to
each other that looks good
the last two are sitting next to each
other we got some weird stuff that's
happening here but we'll come back and
handle that weird stuff later
these two are still sitting next to each
other but they're still not taking up
the full width so let's go ahead and
change bottom to be a width of 50
and the beautiful thing about bottom is
that it still inherits all the other
stuff from the sections right it still
gets the height the the border the float
it's the only thing we're overriding in
the cascade is the width so if we save
this and go back
we can see that now the bottom two are
taking up that 50
the top three are sitting next to each
other but we got this weird thing that's
happening here let's inspect and see
what's going on right click inspect
and if we look at the sections they look
good the sections all look at the right
spot as we come down and we get to the
footer we set the footer slid up
it slid up
and here's what's happening
here are our sections
sitting
sitting next to each other
right and
here is my footer
my footer right now
is hitting the sections and doesn't go
anywhere
right
but as soon as i float my sections the
footer goes zoop
and slides up
let's see that one more time here are
the sections originally footer is
hitting them
it can't go up
but as soon as we float those sections
and they go off the page
the footer slides on up so
we can stop
that footer from sliding up
by clearing it
so if we go back and we go ahead and we
put a clear on the footer
we save both and we come back
the footer is where it should be
because what the what the footer just
did right
what the footer just did instead of
sliding under when we floated the
content because we floated all of these
sections we floated all them off the
page
so instead of like instead of sliding
underneath it looked to the left
it looked to the right and it saw all
the stuff that was floating and just
stayed where it was at
right it just stayed where it was at so
instead of needing to slide under it
look to the left and look to the right
and stayed where it was
beautiful
questions about this one so far and
that's the layout folks that's the
layout we got it right
boom
boom i'm happy with that
all right
so folks are asking about clear fix
clear fix is a very specific thing
clear fix is when your container
collapses so let's let's go ahead and
set this up a little bit differently
let's wrap these
three sections in a main
and
let's wrap these two bottom sections in
a section
that we'll call we'll give it the class
of
let's give it a different class we'll do
it like class of
bot
we'll call it bottom
and we'll call these bottom sec
so
that'll have the class of bottom and
these will be bottom sec i'm going to
change these to bottom sec as well just
so we're consistent beautiful
all right so now
we have main
and we have
the section with the class of bottom
let's take a look at this let me take
the float
off the sections
i take the float off the sections and
we're going to look at something
so i'm going to come back here i'm going
to refresh
and if we look at main
look at all the space main is taking up
look when i hover over our main look at
all that blue that right now is the
height
of main look how big it is look how tall
it is that is the height of main but
wait a minute if we look at our css
do we give main any height chat do we
give main any height at all
nope
there's no height here main doesn't have
any height anywhere right
and so if we look there's no height on
main and so we're going to run into a
problem
main right now is getting its height
based on the sections that are inside of
it each of these have a height of 200
pixels and so that's how mane is getting
its height right now
maine is gonna get tight from the stuff
that's inside of it
as soon as we float this content
look what happens
let's float it
i'm gonna save i'm gonna come back i'm
gonna refresh
maine is in shambles do you see do you
even see maine anymore look i'm hovering
over main just like i did before
and if you can see i know it's really
tiny
it's gonna say like zero right there
ready hold on
it says zero
i floated that content
it says i floated the content right i
floated it and maine went boom it
collapsed on itself
i floated the sections that were inside
and main boom collapsed right it no
longer has stuff inside of it that's
supporting it right before those
sections were holding main open
but now the sections are floating
it collapsed on itself
now there's a couple ways to solve this
we could give main its own height
or we can use a hack right the reason
why floats are so hard and why they're
weird to use is because there's a lot of
hacks to work around this stuff which is
why i like to teach it because if you
don't actually learn these hacks you're
you're dead in the water when it comes
to actually like actually using this
stuff and actually translating it to
flex and all that fun stuff so if we
look
we have this class up here called clear
fix
and what clear fix does
is it puts a dot
that is invisible
right it puts a dot that is invisible
after
right
it puts a dot
that is invisible
after
so if we go back to main
what we can do is we can give this a
class
of clear fix
and what it's going to do
is if we refresh
we can see that main has height again
because what happened
is that there is now a little dot
that is invisible
and instead
of main
collapsing
right instead of main collapsing
we wrap around that dot
mane is wrapping around that dot and so
it doesn't matter
what's happening inside doesn't matter
if it's floating it doesn't matter
what's going on we've told it to wrap
around that invisible dot so it retains
its height that's all clearfix does is
it stops containers from collapsing
right stops containers from collapsing
when
you float stuff
that's all it is
robodom thank you for the hydration
cheers to you
that's it
so that's where clearfix comes from and
so that's why floats
give so much trouble
because you have to learn all these
weird hacks you have to learn what clear
fix does stops containers from
collapsing what
clearing stops stuff from from floating
past other stuff what and so you can do
layout with floats but you have to learn
all those hacks
beautiful
all right
we had a few more layouts here
but i think if you can do this layout
you can probably do these layouts right
this is just one two three sections you
get one a class that makes it bigger
same thing here one two three sections
or maybe this is an aside if you had
more content to go off of and you're
just changing the whiffs on these so i
think if you can do these
you can do these two layouts and so if
you're new you might come back and try
these remember we've had a whole we have
like two classes to get to this one
layout so if you're brand new
don't feel pressured that you have to
understand how to do this layout right
out the right out the gate go back and
watch our two classes on layout yeah all
right so we did it with floats
but now
it's time to do a
flexbox right we did it we did it we did
it we did it with floats
let's do a flexbox
cool let's take a peek
let's go back
we have
our header footer our sections i'm going
to clear it clean out
uh this
i'm going gonna clean out all this here
we go
all right so we got our header and
footer
which are on here right they got a
height they got a border it looks fine
and dandy
and then i want to do the layout that we
just did so what i'm going to do is i'm
going to use flex
and flex works well
when your stuff is in containers and our
stuff is in containers we have main and
section class bottom so what i'm going
to do is
i am going to
target
main
and section
i'm going to make sure they're both
display display flex
and then i'm going to target all my
sections
and make sure that they are
um taking up one space each
and they have a border so let's try that
let's go ahead and do
main and bottom
and we're just going to say display flex
and then for for all of my sections
i'm going to target my sections
and i'm going to say
take up one space each and let's give
you a border so we can actually see it
pixel
solid black all right let's save it
let's go back
let's refresh
uh we didn't get them heights we got to
give them heights too my bad let's give
them height height 200 pixels
save it we go back
and boom same layout done
no floating
no percentages
we done did it
[Laughter]
let's take a peek
all right
so we have our two containers main
and bottom
right so if we go back and look
thank you for the stunt alert
we have main
and bottom
we set both of those containers to be a
flexible container and the way we did
that is by setting
display
flex
and then the only other thing we had to
do
was tell our sections because if we look
they're all sections right these three
are sections and these two are sections
the only thing we had to say to them is
hey
take up one space each
and we gave them the height and border
and once we did that
we wound up with the same layout because
these three sections each took up one
space each which winds up being that 33
and then these each took up one space
each what's winds up being 50
because
there was
three of them in here
and two of them in here so it does all
the stuff for you right you didn't have
to calculate the percentages you didn't
have to do the
the floating or anything like that it
just
it just does it and so
that's why
books are really jazzed about flexbox
you can literally change the game in
like two seconds and get all of the
layout done
now once you go deeper with flexbox
you're gonna see that there's some other
really fun stuff you can do you can do
things like space around you can do
space between
so all of these things that
would enable you to to build out more
custom layouts you can do very very
quickly quickly with flexbox if you have
like all your elements in the nav and
you want like space around each element
you just say space around those elements
and it just works without having to
calculate percentages or any of that odd
stuff so that's the beauty of flex and
flexbox
flex one somebody asked it's just it
just tells it to take up one space each
so if we look we have
two of them here so they're going to
take up one space which means 50 50.
here we have three of them so that means
33.3333
repeating of course right and so it just
means to take up one each and so it'll
do the math for you after that so that's
the beauty of flexbox is that very
quickly you can do layout you don't have
to do floats or percentages there's less
hackiness you just have to learn some
vocabulary to use it well and so
uh part of the homework we did for
flexbox was a couple things there is
kind of like three big resources i
recommend
one is the complete guide to flexbox by
css tricks
and if you are
um
new that's all in the follow on
materials channel if you just go to if
you just like search for flex in that
channel you'll see that recommendation
the complete guide to flexbox by css
tricks
i recommend the traversing media video
on flexbox just as a quick overview and
then there are two games that i
recommend that really help solidify it
and the games are really helpful here i
don't really always like games but these
ones are really helpful uh one is
flexbox froggy and the other is flexbox
zombies if you go through those two
tutorials and you do the two games you
are squared away on needing flexbox and
so definitely
something i recommend and they're fun
and you'll actually retain it all make
sure you put it into your anki flex is
something that really has to be in your
ank or else you'll forget all the weird
terms you need to know
yeah grade we haven't gotten to grid yet
when we come back with our javascript
skills we'll touch on a little bit of
grid
and all that of course is on our discord
but once again it was
the the complete guide to flexbox by css
tricks
travesy media the goat has a flexbox
video that i really like and then
uh flexbox
zombies and flexbox
uh froggy are the two the two games
well what would flex two do it would
take up two points two two spaces
instead of one and so there's a couple
ways you can make your containers bigger
or smaller and one of them is something
called flex basis and so it's kind of
like almost like using whiffs but in a
flexible container so definitely go deep
with this stuff
like i said i wanted to show you a
little bit show you why people love it
so much but we'll come back and play
more flex and a little bit of grid once
we learn our javascripts
cool
so i would recommend for homework if you
had not already
try doing this layout with flex
try doing this layout of flex and try
doing this layout with flex you will
need flex basis probably for like this
one and this one because it's different
sizes
thank you cloud i got it
alrighty
we're at the top of the hour so i want
to take our five-minute break we're
gonna do five minutes here we did a
10-minute one before but we'll do five
now when we come back from five minutes
we are going to jump into responsiveness
we're gonna look at things called ms and
rems and then we're going to make
content decisions with media queries so
i will see you all in five minutes
please if you're able
get up move around hydrate take care of
yourself and i'll see you all in five
minutes
dying arrows added two minutes to the
timer so we're going for uh we're going
for seven minutes thank you dying
seven minutes on the clock
all right see you all in seven
i'm gonna run some ads so folks don't
see them
i might run like six minutes of ads
[Music]
um
bye
let's go
it's impressive this is why pomodoro is
important exactly you take your breaks
you can keep going
cat is wreaking havoc
all right 45 seconds left
are we covering a raise in oop today no
no no
that's uh because we'll do another
review once we get to the end of
javascript
and we'll include a raise and oop then
layered kick there is yep you go back to
our original layout class
on youtube
exclamation point youtube
what font do you use i think it's just
the default but i use a uh
like a color scheme for folks that are
color blend
just to hopefully help a little bit on
stream
alrighty
six hours let's go
come on back folks come on back
all right
it wouldn't let me run six minutes of
ads i was hoping that we could get like
like two in and then it wouldn't like
run ads for folks for a while but it got
angry so all right
it's just getting started y'all exactly
alrighty let's get jump into
responsiveness
so
so far our sites have been what we call
fixed
with meaning that
no matter what we did they kind of just
stayed the same size
and
back in the day that's what a lot of
sites were they were fixed as opposed to
responsive so here is
ups website all the way up to like 2017.
so in 2017 this is still what their
website looked like where if you opened
up on a larger monitor
it still had all this white space right
it still had all uh
still had all that white space right
and so
we didn't have to
like that was just that was just wild
sauce right and so what happened is
eventually the mobile explosion
forced companies to really consider
making their devices work great across
all different kinds of devices
boston.com is one of my favorite
examples of this
boston.com had a really bad static site
and then what they realized is that if i
want eyeballs
on my content i need something that
looks good across devices so as the site
gets smaller so this would be like a
tablet size
and then this would be kind of like
mobile phone size the site just looks
great across all
different sizes of screens and this is
really important because
boston.com cares about ads and for it to
care about ads
right it needs eyeballs and to get
eyeballs they need you watching or
reading this content when most people
are going to watch or read it
and
for a lot of news websites that's
especially in metro areas that's during
your commute
and so if you're doing your commute that
means you're going to be on a phone and
if the site does not look good on a
phone then they're not going to get the
eyeballs because they can't sell ads and
it's a wrap so they really invest it
pretty heavily and making their site
look great
across every device so it looks good on
tablet
and even mobile phone and every space in
between
and so that's the idea of responsiveness
now
there are
a couple key things that enable a site
to be
responsive
one
a site is fluid
meaning that it looks good even between
uh all of what will eventually come
known as our break points and the way
the site looks fluid is either you're
using a flexible grid
or you are using percentages and as your
site kind of gets lo
as you as your browser window sorry
resizes from larger to smaller or
smaller to larger it still looks good in
between and so if we look at our our
flexible site here that we use flexbox
on
even as it gets smaller it still looks
kind of good and as it gets bigger still
looks fine as well and so
that fluidity is one of the key things
that we need to have in mind right that
fluidity so we need to have in mind when
it comes to building out a responsive
website this fluidity is going to help
us in between our different device sizes
the second thing that we need is
elasticity and elasticity typically has
to deal with fonts or using
responsive units of measure and the
responsive unit of measure we're going
to learn about are m's and
rems and so your fonts and then even
some of your sizing could eventually be
in rems and m's so that as we're
responding to the page as it's getting
bigger or smaller our text can respond
as well and then the last thing are
content decisions
if our site is fluid and elastic the
last big thing that we have to figure
out are content decisions what should be
here at this screen
size right what should be here what
should what should that should that
column still be there so on desktop we
have all this real estate right
but once we get to say tablet this most
popular probably can go away it's a
little bit extra and then once we get to
mobile phone we run out of horizontal
space
right we run out horizontal space we
have a lot of vertical space so
everything going to a singular column
is a good idea so these are content
decisions we
pair fluidity elasticity and content
decisions to make a responsive website
and the way we make our content
decisions are with something called
media queries so let's take a peek
at each of these step by step and then
we'll we'll take a look at building a
responsive site very briefly so
fluidity we've already seen if our sites
are widths and percentages or
or using flex we're good the fluidity is
baked in
msu rams are where some folks tend to
trip up and so
let's go ahead and take a look at this
together
now
let's say we had
hundreds of lines let's say we have
thousands of lines
of css
right
thousands of lines of css
and in these thousands of lines of css
we had all of our font sizes in pixels
right so we had thousands of line of css
and all of our font sizes are in pixels
you go to your client
and your client or let's say your boss
says i love the site
but i want
i want
all the fonts to be double
the size
i want all the fonts to be double
what would you have to do
to fix all those font sizes and pixels
across
thousands of lines of css
you'd have to go and change each one
individually exactly
you'd be control effing through all of
your code
finding each one
once you find them you also have to do
the math
all right 12 to 24 15 to 30 17 to what
right and so like gonna do all that math
however
if all of your fonts were in m's
you could make one change and all your
fonts would double so if we look here
here i have
my paragraph
sized as an m
sorry size as an m
and an m
is a responsive unit of measure
in m
will look at the parent's font size
right it'll look at the parent's font
size and that's what its basis for size
will be
so
this paragraph what is its parent
real quick and chat this paragraph its
parent is what
it's the section
exactly this parent the parent of this
paragraph is
the section
and so this section
right this section
right now has a font size of 20
pixels
so how large
is this paragraph right now in terms of
font size
what is the font size of this paragraph
at the moment
yeah it's 20 pixels exactly
and if i wanted to double the font size
of this paragraph
what would i change
if i wanted this this paragraph to go
from 20 pixels
to 40 pixels right i could do two things
i could make it two m's
right and now it's 40 pixels
or i could leave it at 1m and make this
40 pixels
right
the the m
is tied to its parents font size
so
if i
had all of my text in ms
and i wanted everything to double in
size
all i had to do is change this one line
and now all of my fonts that are sized
and m's are now double
the size
that's it that's all you got to do
and so
this m is really really powerful because
it enables us to not only to change all
of our sizes very quickly
but we can get into some really nifty
things
right
we we can
get into this idea
of
our font sizes being responsive
and what the heck do i mean by that
so to get to that let me let me let me
show you one thing that's a problem
devman thank you for the hydration
cheers to you
let me show you one thing that's a
problem
when we use m's
right
when we use m's what happens is that the
m
always takes its size
from the nearest container
always takes it from the nearest
container so what's a problem that we
could run into if we are using m's in
our code and let's say we're working
with other developers
what's a problem we could run into
yeah
somebody else can come in
and throw in a slightly different
container so this paragraph might get
wrapped in an article
and if that article
has a font size of 100 pixels well guess
what
your m just went from being 20
to 100 pixels because this container
changed
right the container it was it was
originally in the section but now it's
in an article and they put a font size
on that article so all of your m's
just messed up
they it changed all of them right
so this kept happening and so they
introduced what are called
rems rem stand for root m
and so instead of having to like look to
the parent to get the size so instead of
looking at the section for its size or
the article for its size it doesn't
matter what size the containers have
it's always going to look
at the html element
so whatever
font size is on the html element that is
the only thing a rem will look at it
will never look anywhere else for its
font size it'll always look at the html
element now this is great because you
get all the benefits of m's but nobody
can come along and mess it all up for
you that's the beauty of ramps now
you're into something funky here i'm
saying 62.5
instead of having like a default font
size like like a really easy font size
to have here would be like 10 pixels
right that'd be really easy because one
rem would be 10 pixels two rams would be
20 pixels three rams would be 30 pixels
right that would be really easy to keep
in mind
but i have this like
62.5 percent
why the heck
why the heck would i do that
how do we decide between when you use m
and rem it's a preference i use rams all
the time
yeah
it's for accessibility and let me
explain why we got some folks that
remember in chat here
the default font size for most browsers
is 16 pixels so if you do 16
times
62.5
you wind up with 10 pixels so some quick
maths to give us 10 pixels
and the reason why
i like to use the percentage here
instead of hard coding 10 pixels
is because some individuals that have
maybe visibility concerns
they will actually change the default
sizing of their browser so they might
double the sizing of all their fonts
they might they might make everything
bigger so that they can see it more
clearly
and if i hard code
10 pixels well guess what
it gets rid of all of their defaults and
forces everything to be 10 pixels
but with the percent
i can grow or shrink to accommodate
their default sizing and i can still get
all the benefits of rams so rems make it
really easy
to respond
not only for accessibility concerns but
also for us in our speed of development
one rem is whatever we set as the base
font size and we can use that throughout
our code so rems make it really easy
to
update all of your sizing at one go
right i could double every rem by
doubling this value
and it also helps when it comes to
accessibility because we could take
whatever that default browser sizing is
and have rams be equivalent to that
does reset mess this up
uh it can but you're going to still come
back and put this font size
like oh i see why leon uses normalize
yep it's one of my reasons
alrighty
so that's m's and rems just one more
time i know folks get really hung up on
m's and rams
if we wanted all of our paragraphs to be
10 pixels we could of course come down
here and say font size
10 pixels right we could make our
paragraphs 10 pixels and it would work
right
we just say 10 pixels 10 pixels 10
pixels we have a thousand lines of code
where we put all of our font sizes in
pixels
all right they're all in pixels what up
samia we're still going
they're all in pixels right
but when it comes time to double all the
font sizes because our boss asks us to
double the font sizing we'd have to go
line by line and change 10 to 20 10 to
20 10 to 20 10 to 20. that's so wild
however if we were using
rems we could just double this number
and then this would go from 10 to 20
10 to 20 right so you get that ability
to double we also get the ability to
whatever the user has set
as their base font size we can use that
as a responsive unit of measure for all
of our fonts so not only are we we're
not hard coding anymore if we if we were
to say 10 pixels for this
and somebody needs to see font at three
times the size
right if somebody says you know what in
my browser i want my fonts to be three
times the size and you force it to be 10
pixels well guess what they're going to
see 10 pixels they're not going to see
they're not going to see the 30 pixels
that they want
so there's some accessibility concerns
here and there's also like ease of
development concerns here as well
alrighty
keep pushing here folks
the last thing that we
the last thing that we still have
is content decisions
right
well most professional settings use rams
yeah rams or m's rams i think are i mean
that's my preference for sure
i'll always use rams i won't i won't
like switch between rams and m's
m's give you more flexibility you could
have some containers that have a certain
font size and other containers that have
a different one
and so some folks do use ms because they
want different areas of their site to
have different base font sizes and so
you would use m's but i like rims
cool
the last thing it comes
right
the last thing that comes in terms of
response in this is content
decisions
right content decisions
meaning that if we're looking at say the
the boston website
right the boston website they decide at
a certain screen size
to get rid of their
column
right that's a content decision they
said at this screen size i don't want
this anymore they also said at this
screen size i don't want this content
anymore so when you're making a response
a website
you have your
fluidity
which is size the percentages are a
flexible container
you have your elasticity which is using
your your your your sizing in m's or
rems and the last thing you have to
figure out is content decisions and you
make those content decisions by using
what how can we make these content
decisions
how do we make content decisions
yeah we use media queries to make
content decisions and so media queries
just enable us to show
certain css
at different screen sizes so here's a
very simple media query
we're saying
at media all
all that means is you can think of
whenever you see these over here just
count start counting them at zero we'll
explain what they mean in a second so
we're saying 0 and a max width of 600
pixels so between 0 and 600 pixels in
screen size or your viewport size
this rule will take effect
but this rule will not be in fact above
600 pixels
right
and this all
what this means is like when do these
media queries take effect you can have
media queries that happen for across all
your devices you could have media
queries for like printers you could have
media queries for a bunch of different
things and so if you ever like
printed out something and it looked
different stylistically
that was the media queries that play
cool
someone said do you build mobile first
and then add your media queries to get
larger the other way around it's two
different schools of thought some people
start mobile first because that's all
your heavy hitting content and then they
get bigger and as they get bigger they
add their media queries some people take
their design they shrink it till it
looks bad write their media query shrink
it again media query string again media
query that's the way i do i start big to
small
a lot of folks are in that mobile first
camp i think it's great but if you're
already working with a designer that's
already thought through the mobile first
design and is giving you all like three
different layouts like a tablet desktop
and mobile i just start big and work my
way to small it's up to you though it's
a preference
all right
let's look at a media query let's look
at one of these together i'm just going
to copy this one
and we'll paste it into the code that
we're working on most recently so here
is
our layout that we did recently
at the end i'm going to come down here
and put that media query
and instead of it being an h1 because we
don't have any h1 i'm going to make the
sections
and i'm going to give them a background
of blue
beautiful all right so that should
between 0 and 600 pixels make our
backgrounds blue so let's save and see
if we get that
all right let's refresh
boom so you can see if you pay attention
up here i know it's really tiny
but as i'm dragging you can actually see
what width i am at so i'm at 570
580 590 and then right at 600 boom it
goes away
right over 600 all that all that style
below 600 boom that that rule is in play
above 600 below above below above below
and so the beauty here
is you can set up your media queries so
that
between different sizes certain rules
take effect and so what you can get
really good at doing is saying all right
not only can i make stylistic decisions
but i can also make content decisions so
maybe at 600 i don't want the bottom
sections anymore so i can do
bottom
and i could do something like display
none right so if i come back here
and i refresh
and i go below 600 you can see that
those two bottom sections are completely
gone that's the content decision i just
made there above 600 no color and the
two bottoms are there
below 600 they're gone
boom
and then you can keep going up too we
can then do um you can do you can kind
of cascade them if you want you can also
do like min and max so we could do at
media
um
min
with
it's a 601
and
max
with you say like 1024 which would be
like most like desktops
and a lot of folks will even use m's and
rems here
right m's and rams here as well instead
of pixel values you'll see that pretty
commonly you'll often see people not
really using min like they'll do all min
or all mac just so you kind of have it
cascading which makes a little bit
easier but um we can just put something
in here just so we can see it
background
and let's just go ahead and do
color color red
cool
oh i didn't actually do my my rule
i didn't say what i was coloring red
i was looking at the one above there we
go i make my section color red
remember your rules go inside of the
media query because here's the immediate
query opening
and closing and this is the whole rule
that i put in there so don't forget that
you have to put the rule inside of your
curly braces all right so let's save
this
and see where we're at
all right so we can see above 600 we're
red
below 600 we're blue and we made a
content decision if we go all the way
past 10 24 the red goes away
so we're able to show
different colors different sizes right
we're able to make content decisions
we're able to stack remove stuff all
using these media queries and so a very
common thing to do when to have at least
kind of like three
main groupings right uh something that
looks really good on mobile and it looks
really good on tablet and something that
looks really good on desktop and then if
your site is fluid and elastic it still
looks good in between right those those
specific media queries as well
alrighty
all right we looked we looked at a media
query together
and we kind of saw this already kind of
where i made this responsive
if i want it
right if i want it
to
[Music]
make these stack
right
let's say they're floated
let's say they're floated and i want
them to stack
below 768 which is like a tablet size so
below tablet i want them to stack what
what could i do in my media query
yeah at a certain media query we get to
say with 100
and they would stack because they would
take up 100 of the of the page right so
we could put a media query that was like
between
uh like
i don't know 0 and 768 and then it would
with 100 meaning that they would stack
and it'll be a great content decision
beautiful
all right
flex direction column yeah if we're
doing flex it'd be cool to do it that
way too
cool
all right that's kind of a quick
overview of media queries
like i said
we will because we're already
we're already six hours into it so what
we're gonna do is once we learn
more
once we learn more javascript we're
going to come back
and we're going to build bigger layouts
so we'll see things like the like we'll
have some examples that are like kind of
like the salon websites right where
we'll come back we'll use grid on those
we'll make sure they're fully responsive
and they respond to javascript meaning
that like you click on things drop downs
pop up all that stuff and so we'll come
back and do those um but i want to get
to javascript today and so we'll we'll
save that for once a little bit more
javascript but hopefully this is enough
review for the html and css so you feel
a little bit better you got some review
in you got some new stuff in your anki
decks and so i want to get into some
lovely lovely javascript
and different hey thank you for if i get
the
subs hope you're doing well thank you
for being here
appreciate you
alrighty
so
let's cover the basics of programming
and then i think we'll be at the top of
the hour so we'll take a break and then
we're going to spend today
covering the big
four we're going to cover variables
functions
conditionals and loops and we're going
to get some practice in with each of
them make sure we feel comfortable with
them and then that's where we'll end
today
cool
how long will you be here i don't know
it depends on how quickly we go through
all this material
so but this one i think it'll be a lot
more be a lot more interactive we'll be
doing more coding we'll be doing a
little bit of coding uh but this this
portion will we'll kind of do some of
the like to bring it on and bring it on
again stuff just to get our fingers on
the keyboard more
cool
all righty
let's go ahead and do programming
when it comes to programming there's one
really important rule and that is a
computer will do what you tell it to do
right a computer will do what you tell
it to do
so
what is a program well a program is a
set of instructions that you write to
tell a computer what to do computers are
really good at following instructions
very very quickly and way faster than a
normal human could follow them so a
program is simply a set of instructions
that you follow sorry a set of
instructions that you write to tell a
computer what to do and then that makes
programming
the act of writing those instructions in
a language that the computer can
understand and this is really important
because
computers by default don't really
understand javascript that javascript is
more for us as humans
to understand what we're talking about
and the logic that is happening in the
program but that javascript is then
broken down into something that the
computer can understand and when we get
to node we're going to talk a lot more
about that in detail like how it's
broken down what's doing the breaking
down but for now
all you have to really keep your mind on
is that
we are
writing javascript which is more human
readable but that is broken down into
instructions that the computer can
really understand so what the heck do i
mean by that that the computer can
actually understand
at a base level a computer is comprised
of a few parts
you have memory so it can like store
stuff and recall stuff later on you have
an arithmetic logic unit that enables it
to do like basic programming like basic
basic computation you have a program
counter there are some like very basic
things that make up a computer
and underneath all of that are some very
very fundamental concepts and so i want
to spend a few seconds talking about
those fundamental concepts building up
to a larger idea as to what javascript
might be really doing for us
so that we don't have to actually be in
the muck that i'm about to show right
now
all right here is a
light bulb and right now this light bulb
is not
powered
right it's not powered
if we go ahead and add a battery
now the light bulb is powered
and it turns on
right
out of battery there's enough juice
going through it the light bulb turns on
now let's add a little bit more
complexity to this very very simple
circuit so
i am going to have
my battery still
but what i'm going to do is i'm going to
put a switch here
and right now the circuit is open
which means that it's not complete and
the light bulb is not on
as soon as i
close this circuit
what happens
as soon as i close that circuit what
happens
in chat what do you think as soon as i
close that circuit what happens yeah
it's on
right let there be light exactly it is
on
and
it it gives enough juice to power the
light bulb when the light bulb turns on
okay thank you for the hype train
appreciate that
all right
turns on now the really nifty thing is i
can represent this circuit right i can
represent this circuit as whether the
switch is open
or closed and a very simple way of
saying on or off right so if it is off
i'll say zero and the circuit is open
or if it is closed and on i'll say one
so at a very very simple level i can
represent this circuit as either zero
meaning it is open
and or off and one meaning on so on and
off at a very very base level zero and
one
and once we agree to this we can start
to build up some very very simple logic
give me a little bit of creative freedom
here on this one uh if you're a
codeweeny but let's let's show this so
here we have
a circuit
battery still in the middle
but now i have two
switches
how could i represent this circuit as it
stands right now
yeah we can represent it with zero zero
right both of the circuits are open both
of them are off and so we could
represent this as zero zero
i could also close both of them and how
could i represent this circuit with both
of them on
yeah we could do one one
one one beautiful
we could do one one and as soon as we
get to one one where both of them are on
we could say this one is on
blank this one is on well how do we
describe the circuit right now we could
say this one is on blank this one is on
what am i what am i trying to say there
this one is on
blank this one is on what am i saying in
there
yeah i'm saying and
i'm saying this one is on
and
this one is on so we're in our very very
first bit of simple logic we could say
one one
equals
and
right
from that very very simple logic we can
start to build things that are called
logic gates where we could say like and
or not or
or all these like more complicated bits
of logic and so from this very simple
idea of on and off we can build up to
very simple logic from very simple logic
to a language that the computer can
understand that really wouldn't be
honestly human readable a lots of zeros
and ones and simple complex logic very
rudimentary ways of accessing memory
something we would call like machine
code maybe something called assembly if
you've ever heard of that or did the uh
the we i shared a video of like how like
a game boy works right so
we could do these very very
low level languages we could all learn
assembly and and and be very close to
the language that the computer can
understand
but that would take a lot of time and
effort it'd be really hard to like keep
that code base maintainable and
thankfully we sit on the shoulders of
giants who have taken that very very
very very simple logic built it up to
assembly built it up to sea built it up
to the things that we sit on top of that
give us
javascript so we get the ability to
write very clean
readable code that at least is somewhat
human readable between us but it breaks
all the way down to the simple logic of
on and off for us and we don't have to
worry about that in our day-to-day of
programming that's the beauty of
javascript we get a language
that we can understand that we can share
and very quickly see what the intent of
our other engineers were but we don't
have to get into the muck of on and off
zeros and ones
and so
we owe them
we do all them a lot uh for real
uh and so this leads to this idea of
independence day being a true story
now in independence day uh the alien
mothership comes and something really
interesting happens
the the alien ship that we have from the
roswell uh crash landing it starts to
get power and turns on so we know that
their like power system and maybe like
their communication systems are
intertwined
uh we try to we try to nuke the the ship
that's over the us it doesn't work their
shields are too too powerful it blocks
our nukes and so jeff goldblum
has to do something that enables
them to save the world
what does jeff goldbloom do that enables
us to enables them to save the world
what do they do
they upload a computer virus
to the alien mothership that brings down
the shields because like their shield's
communication are linked right
shields come down we nuke them america
right save the world
we refer to this uh
this uh
well we're not going to say that yeah
give me so give me a second to get there
how the heck
does jeff goldblum
write a computer virus that takes down
an alien mothership
everybody's keep spamming bub binary
upload boom exactly now jeff goldblum
didn't understand the alien language but
they're able to reverse engineer all the
way down
to the primitive values that we just
talked about
we assume
even if the aliens are a super advanced
civilization right and they have wild
tech that in their universe there are
still constants right math and physics
are still constants on and off are still
con still constants they might have way
better transistors that do on and off
way faster than us but at our base level
it's still
on
and off
right and so jeff goldblum's able to
reverse engineer all the way down to
these kind of base logic and then build
it all the way back up into something
that can infect the alien mothership it
affects the alien mothership binary
upload boom we nuked america right so
this idea that we could reverse engineer
is actually something a lot of people do
i share two videos on discord that i
really really love uh the one first
video was uh no no tamagotchis were
harmed in the making of this video which
is a lie um
they a lot of tamagotchis were harmed
making that video where we had someone
during a conference presentation
reverse engineer tamagotchis which is
pretty cool and then i also shared uh
scanline who for a while if you sent
them
like an electronic thing they would
reverse engineer it so it's like a skill
that a lot of people actually have and
develop so it's actually not too too too
far-fetched and therefore independence
day is a true story
if you watch either those videos they
are both in the follow along materials
channel on discord
alrighty so that leads us up to
javascript a human readable language
that can be broken down into that base
level logic so that we don't have to we
get something that's easy to read
that we can share amongst each other
look at it and maybe quickly discern
whether or not it is
logical what's happening we can kind of
look at it and figure out what's
happening without having to know this
very very base level logic
already so
we're gonna jump into javascript uh but
we're gonna stop here we're gonna take
our break a little a little early uh
just so that we can kind of transition
easily into javascript and not have to
stop for a little bit while for a little
while so let's put five minutes on the
clock please
beautiful
and when we come back we're jumping into
the first of our big four
variables so five minutes on the clock
please if you're able get up move around
stretch hydrate it's important we've
been going for a long time
already see you in five folks
gonna run some ads so please really take
a break
crazy 101 added two minutes to the timer
so this is a seven minute timer now
thank you frazee 101
alrighty
two minutes on the timer
see you in seven minutes can we have
another review like this yeah we'll have
another one like this in the future
all right folks cn7
yo bugaboo that's wild congrats
finally got a job mad benefits great
culture they don't care about my
following convictions let's go that's
what i'm talking about congrats bugaboo
we're taking our brick but uh
that's amazing to hear congratulations
we that's actually a good idea
i'm going to send you a dm on discord
uh we are trying to do a talk with
returning citizens actually tomorrow
so i would love to maybe bring you into
that talk
and if the tomorrow doesn't work then we
can find a different time to bring you
in because i think that'd be helpful for
folks to hear from your experience so
maybe we can set up something that's a
little bit more uh long-form but hey
congrats
tomorrow should be fine all right i'll
hit you up on discord after we're done
streaming
we don't get got
we go get
do
all right folks come on back come on
back
alrighty so we are at the beginnings of
javascript but
as we were doing the top of each hour i
want to answer some more questions from
the slido and then we'll get into our
javascript so
i'm going to i'll get to the musical i'm
going to go through the questions
once we feel that we are have a good
understanding of html and css do you
have any recommendations for learning
best practices
um
there's so many things to focus on
early on that are more impactful than
best practices
so
my advice is to stay current and to keep
investing and going deep and not wide
but once you feel pretty good i would
say with full stack um there are some
like very
i don't know and and best practices are
always debated you talk to 10 different
engineers you're going to get 10
different references for best practices
the ones i follow are the martin fowler
series clean code i try to incorporate
clean code into everything whether it's
html css or javascript and so those are
pretty good i recommend starting with
clean code and then looking at some
really good style guides so i love the
airbnb style guide it tells you like
good ways to write your html your css
your javascript so finding respected
style guides and like quid essential
books like clean code are the the best
places to kind of to get started with
that stuff
are you bringing shahao for a chat
hopefully hopefully
can you upload this to youtube as an
unlisted vid well like i said if we
still have the 1500 when we're done i'll
i'll put it on youtube proper looks like
we'll hit that for sure
i talked about that
uh if we were behind in turning an
assignment do we use the original links
to turn in the projects yes
even you're part of the catch-up crew
just use the same links oh good i can
see when people submit so i can see if
you submitted them early or late doesn't
matter
here in the catch-up crew
how do we navigate a client asking for
something we don't know how to do at js
additionally how do we price our
freelancing clients
so i will say pretty much every client i
ever had
i mixed up a youtuber with robert martin
yeah it's clean code by robert martin um
there's a youtuber i watched that's
fowler i don't know why i said fowler
yeah clean code by robert c martin
um that's what i recommend and then like
style guides
um
i would say pretty much every client i
have ever had
right
every client i've ever had
asked me to do something that i didn't
know how to do
and my job as an engineer was to figure
out how to do it and so i would say i
would i would say all right well i gotta
i gotta research how to do those things
and i would bake that into my proposal a
lot of times there's like research time
baked into my proposals
but i would talk to other engineers i
would give it a good google and i figure
out best ways to go about doing the
things that they need it i would say
pretty much every client i've ever had
there's been whole segments that i had
no idea how i was going to do it i just
knew that i was going to be able to
figure it out and i would give myself
enough room and budget to figure it out
not only in terms of like time to figure
it out but also if i needed to hire
someone i left enough room in the amount
they were paying me to hire someone to
figure that piece out so
the way i get around not knowing how to
do stuff is i'm an engineer i'm going to
figure it out and then i leave enough
time and budget to get help if i need it
and then the
pricing is we i don't ever price stuff
i figure out what my client needs i
figure out what their budget is and then
i let them know what i can get done for
that price point at that budget i don't
ever give hourly rates or prices or
anything like that i think it's just a
backwards way of doing it
i feel like if i tell a client i won't
finish a website for four to six months
they will walk away um i just don't
think that's true depends on how you
deliver that value in those four to six
months that that matters if you give
them a really good schedule with the
basics being up in a month then like the
the testing phase being three to six
months like there's ways you can
structure it that give you that time um
but it feels like they're getting lots
of value along that timeline
can you share what a project timeline
will look like for creating a web
application research production
debugging validation uh so
i shared some examples in our
freelancing class of what like those
were real like those were real examples
from real folks that got real clients
and so if you look at the breakdown in
the slides it's like a real breakdown
that somebody actually got
um
that actually that actually someone gave
as part of their proposal
right
so that that's what i would take a peek
at there are also really good like
examples that you can find online of
like example proposals things like that
but each timeline's gonna be different
depending on what they need if somebody
needs something very simple it's gonna
be a very quick timeline for me so i
need something complex and very
different so you can look up examples if
you ping me in like the ask leon maybe i
can find some examples to share but some
of them are already in the slides
uh what is this hackathon people are
talking about uh that was we had a
project night on thursday that's what
people are talking about so if you were
here thursday that's what they were
talking about
will the super view be in the vod later
today yes everything is always available
immediately on twitch and then uh most
of our all of our classes go up on
youtube and uh office hours just stay on
twitch though
alrighty
let's pause there with the questions and
let's get into javascripts
can we have a separate freelancing
channel uh possibly let me talk to the
mods and we can think we can figure out
if that makes sense
we're always apprehensive to add
channels because it just increases the
moderation that we have to do um and so
we're pretty slow to add channels and we
get rid of ones that people don't use
just to free up some of the burdens so
i'll talk to the mods and then if we
think that it people get a lot of value
out of it we'll add it
alrighty
boom
javascript right javascript has a
specific
syntax we talked about syntax already
with html and css
right
we have the html and the css
they all had specific syntax html had
opening and closing tags
css had the curly braces that open and
close selector and declaration blocks
well javascript will have its own syntax
as well the spelling and grammar rules
of that language and the beautiful thing
about javascript syntax is it uses a lot
of characters that you might not be that
familiar with we have semicolons
brackets parentheses quotation marks all
these unique characters that you can
kind of just go around the keyboard on
and kind of see pop-ups i'm going to
open the inspector
right i'm going to open the inspector
and i'm just going to go around and kind
of talk about the different characters
you might see
uh square brackets
curly braces or figure brackets
depending on how cool you are
uh we're going to have
question marks which are often called
ternary selectors which is weird don't
worry about that for now
we have a forward slash we have double
quotes single quotes
we have double pipe character for or
we have the hyphen for subtraction
parentheses which we'll see a lot
asterisk for multiplication
double ampersand for and like the logic
we talked about earlier
we have
the percent sign which is the modulus or
the remainder
uh dollar sign which we call bling which
comes up with our template literals or
special ways of creating strings which
we'll see in a little bit
octothorpe which we already saw
saw in html and css
and
bang for not so that means like not
equals whenever you see the bang
exclamation point we call it a bang in
programming
plus sign for addition equals what
you've seen
you'll see the tilde a lot and ticks so
a lot of these extra characters that
you'll be seeing come up in javascript
and the reason why
javascript can start to be really like
wreck your hands and why a lot of my
students develop pain is because your
body is really
not used to hitting all those extra keys
even if like you're an mmoer and like
you're constantly typing in all this
stuff hitting all of those extra
accessory keys definitely
drains your hands or makes them flex and
contort in ways that you're not used to
so even if you're like a memer and
you're always typing it's going to be
different when you get to programming
and that's why
stopping taking your breaks at the top
of the hour at least
letting your hands relax running them
underneath some warm water doing the the
light stretches that dr levi recommend
right keeping your your hands
in a good order is going to
help you in the long run uh my day job i
teach a coding bootcamp called resilient
coders and every single cohort we have
students that go to the hospital every
single cohort i don't care how much
they've typed before they go to the we
have at least one or two people go to
hospital every single cohort just
because they start to develop severe
wrists and hand issues from typing so
much and so please please please please
please make sure you're taking care of
yourself good posture good breaks good
stretches exercise
because it will come for you if you're
not taking care of all this stuff
you know
alrighty
exactly dr levi the fitness doctor
alright the very first thing that we're
going to talk about are variables
they're one of the big four the four
things you really have to understand in
pretty much every programming language
and specifically in javascript so what
the heck are variables
variables enable us to remember a value
to use later on
the entity that we use to store a value
for later on we call a variable
the way i like to remember variables is
i just think of them as buckets
buckets that we can put data into
data buckets and then we can carry these
buckets around and whenever we need that
data
we can take the value out of the bucket
that's all variables are are buckets
full of data that we can carry around
and use them when we want them now
we talked about computers having memory
and so we can think of memory as like a
physical space
so here's our physical memory of our
computer
when we're using variables there are two
steps to variables the first step is
called
declaration
and that's where we put a space in
memory so in memory we would now have a
space called
age
right called age
the second step we call assignment and
that's where we put a value
into that space so here we put 25
into that space in memory so that
declaration created the space
an assignment put a value
into that space
you can also do declaration and
assignment at the same
time the beautiful thing is now that
we've created that space called age and
we put a value inside of it we can ask
for age at any time and it'll give us 25
right now the other cool thing is that
we can go ahead and add that space of
memory subtract from it so we could do
something like age equals age plus 5 and
this value would go from 25 to 30. so
this variables are buckets where we can
store data and we can create multiple
buckets by using declaration and we can
put things into those buckets by
assigning and you can do both the
declaration and assigning at the same
time
when you're creating your variable names
i like to use something called camelcase
and you're going to see me use camelcase
across my html my css and my javascript
just to be consistent so you can see the
first word of my variable is lowercase
and then every other word is capitalized
and it's just a way for me to keep be
consistent with my variable names and it
makes it easier for me to read now some
people use hyphens some people use
underscores it really does
matter
it doesn't really matter as long as
you're consistent each team each group
might do it a little bit differently how
you do it is up to you but you'll see me
use camelcase everywhere
you'll also notice
that i'm using a special keyword here
called let
there are three really important
keywords when it comes to creating
variables you're going to see let
const and var
with the newer versions of javascript
remember these these languages are ever
evolving and we got kind of a really big
update which people call es6 plus
meaning anything after like
after
the the 2015 version of javascript and
forward we got all of these new things
that happened in javascript and one of
them was these keywords for creating a
variable let and const
we've seen them in class we've covered a
little bit more detail
we actually have a command here in chat
which is called exclamation point var or
bang var if you want to read about kind
of the differences and the breakdowns
between let constant var it's there but
you think of let as a variable that's
meant to be reassigned right that can
change that can be added to that can be
subtracted from and then constant
something that's going to stay what it
is we're not going to we're not going to
change it it's going to stay what it is
you'll eventually get into words like
immutable and immutable but that's two
advanced for right now just think of let
as something that's a variable that
might get added to so maybe we'll add
five
to age right or maybe each year age goes
up by one
so your your age is something that would
be a let something that can change over
time but maybe like your
your i don't know maybe maybe maybe your
your twitch name is something that'll
never change right it's set in stone
that's it it's all you get right can't
change it
that would be const
all right
now
variables we saw those spaces at your
birthday there you go birthday is a good
example birthday is a good example of a
cons your birthday is never going to
change right your birthday is your
birthday uh it'll never change so let me
be things that you can you can modify
right
and then cons for things that won't
change and then var there are still use
cases for var but you can read about
those in different uh shared the link
javascript info bar beautiful
alrighty
now we talked about these variables as
buckets that we can put data into but
what kind of data can we store in these
buckets
well there are
there are two
major kinds of data we're going to start
off with the first kind of data are
strings or pieces of text
and we can create strings in three
different ways
we can use double
quotes single quotes or eventually ticks
with template literals
but for now let's just think about
double quotes and single quotes both of
these enable us to keep pieces of text
and
whatever we wrap in these quotes becomes
a piece of text and we can store these
pieces of text in our variables should
we choose to
the odd thing about strings
is that whatever quotes you use on the
outside you cannot use on the inside
without doing a hack and that's because
the strings will terminate let's
actually open up the console here and
see that
so here i'm going to just create like a
nice little string i'm going to assign
it to a variable so let let's let
string equal and we're going to say
um
let's
go
to
town
i'm gonna wrap town in quotes
today
now if we look something weird happened
here
i wanted to wrap town in double clothes
because maybe we're not going to like
town maybe we're going into the city
right and so i tried to wrap town in
double quotes
but since i have double quotes on the
outside you can see exactly it breaks it
doesn't let me complete that full string
and so to get around this we could have
used single quotes on the outside right
we could have done single quotes on the
outside and then this would have worked
but then we would have ran into a
problem with let's so what do we do here
we have both single quotes and double
quotes how can we get around it yes we
can escape it exactly so if we do this
backslash
beautiful
this backslash enables us to escape the
quotes and have one singular string now
when i ask for a string back we get
let's go to town today you can see our
single quote still there our double
quotes are still there and the string is
stored in memory as a variable
what did i do right here i'm going to
highlight a very specific piece right
here what what is that what i just
highlight there
it was kind of hard to see let me circle
it maybe a little bit easier what is
this called chat
what is that called right there
declaration exactly
i created a space and memory
called string
right there's a there's a space in
memory called str
and then on this side
i did what what did i do on this side
i assigned it exactly now this space and
memory
the space in memory has the
let's go to town today inside of it so
we did both the declaration and
assignment on one step and we were able
to get around this idea of having the
same quotes on the outsiders on the
inside by escaping them
beautiful
so that handles strings that's the first
kind of data that can go into our
variables but we also have
numbers this is another kind of data we
can put into our variables we have both
integer values which are like whole
numbers and we have floated values which
are numbers with decimal places so we
can have both whole numbers and floated
values
alrighty
why are the backspaces placed there why
not after it's because as javascript is
reading it it no it needs to know that
it has to ignore the next character so
that backslash enables you to
uh make sure right to make sure
that you can
you can escape the next character which
is the double quotes
so with numbers we can have integer
values
or floated values
and we can also have sine values so
positive and negative are both up for
grabs here
and we can also do arithmetic in
javascript of course plus for addition
uh my or the hyphen for subtraction the
asterisk for multiplication forward
slash for division and then the percent
for modulus modulus this gives you the
remainder so if we did 10 mod 6 what
would our remainder be
yeah four exactly
six goes into ten once and we have four
left over beautiful
if you're having trouble with a delay
try giving it a refresh that sometimes
helps
alrighty
let's go ahead and code variable
fun time so variable fun time let's go
ahead and take a look at that code
and close out the other ones that we
have here
here we have variable fun time here we
go
we have an html file and then we have
uh some style here some cs oh sorry not
cs i don't need css anymore i'm going to
look at my javascript here
beautiful
so
i want you to go ahead and practice your
variables we have some easy we have some
mediums and we have some hards i'm gonna
put four minutes on the timer and then
we're gonna go over them together so
this is your first time with javascript
is your first time with variables that's
okay
look at the slides do as best as you can
and then pay attention when we go
through them together four minutes on
the timer you got this dig deep
go for it
no problem breaker
pony if you need the code it's on our
discord agree to our rules and then in
the following materials you'll see the
zip file
unzip it thrown into the vs code and
here you go variable fun time
url should just be the same aj depends
what you're trying to do though
how do we find the slides to go over
exclamation point slides here in chat
will give you the links to the slides
do you think fiverr is okay to get our
first client no
uh if you watch the freelancing class i
i kind of talk about my thoughts on
fiverr and all those type of platforms i
think you're way better off building
your own network elsewhere that you own
and not behold into those platforms but
each their own having a lot of trouble
maybe then you you kind of take some
time to invest in them but always gonna
be better building your own network than
a network that you're locked in too
can we get an office tour
ah people keep asking i gotta i gotta do
uh like a short form video on it it's a
lot it's it's
pretty wild at the moment honestly
we got some dunzo's nice
minute 15 left
sumo says can't wait for js to become
second nature me too me too
with time all good things
what keyboard do i use i use the kinesis
advantage 2 it's a split keyboard
what's your e-commerce platform of
choice
uh i mean if it's just straight
ecommerce shopify is really easy to use
if you're building something custom i
recommend uh nick's used shopping cart
you can do exclamation point nick and
see their code they have a free software
project that's sponsored by stripe uh to
build shopping carts and things like
that
yup yeah
yeah so it's a really expensive keyboard
it's not something i recommend you jump
into
and buy uh i got both of mine i actually
got one completely for free that's a fun
story and then the other one is
work paid for
yeah the cool thing is like a lot of
times i help people negotiate when
you're negotiating an offer you're gonna
negotiate for a lot of stuff and one of
the things you'll negotiate for is
like a work from home bonus or a pd
funds bonus like professional
development funds
and um that's how you can get a lot of
cool stuff like your keyboards and
things like that
but yeah this is probably my favorite
piece of tech but i always tell everyone
is you don't need an expensive keyboard
to do well
uh you're better off investing in like
sitting right typing right
typing the correct way with all your
fingers taking good breaks you're going
to get 90 of the benefit with just those
things and then that keyboard can help
with the last 10
yeah so i think i think i think some
people just try to jump to the keyboard
and they still have trouble because they
didn't fix all the other stuff like
ergonomically sitting and
and investing in typing right
no
i do have it i do all right let's take a
look at these together come on back
folks
all right create a variable and assign
it a number
let num equal
minus 10 from that number
num
equals num minus 10 beautiful
print that number to the console so it's
gonna be a console.log
console.log num let's save this
let's open this in the browser
and let's inspect
and if we look in the console we see
zero
lovely you see zero beautiful
alrighty
next one
medium create a variable
right create a variable that holds a
value from the input
at 25 to that number alert that number
so create a variable that holds the
value from the input
so we can do a const we're going to add
25 numbers let's do let
and let's say num
from
input
notice my camel casing here lowercase
capital case capital case
equals
and we're going to say
document.queryselector
and we're going to grab it from the
input let's look is there anything on
the input is there more than one input
no
there's only one input but it does have
an id we can use that id if we want but
there's only one input so we're going to
say input for now
i'll just say input
and then how do we get the value out of
an input
how do we get a value out of the input
what we do here
the value yeah yeah so that value
beautiful that'll get the value out of
the input let's add 25 to it
num from input and we saw how to like do
the equals syntax up here let's do
something a little bit different down
here plus equals 25. it's the same thing
as doing the value of reassigning it
minus or plus that number so we could do
num from input equals
num from input plus 25. like that
totally works or we could just do the
plus equals 25 both syntax work it's
either just preference which one you
want to use there
cool
and then we want to alert that number so
alert
and let's alert num from input and let's
see if this this works and then we're
going to talk about it
all right let's refresh
all right it immediately did 25.
wait a minute
it immediately did 25. let's think about
that
it immediately did 25
why did it immediately do 25
it happened instantly
these three lines of code
are not waiting for anything to happen
it's not waiting for a click event it's
not waiting for something to happen it
is simply
happening as soon as the page loads so
those three lines run it's not waiting
for anything so there's no way that our
user can be fast enough right fast
enough to put a value in the input
they're just not fast enough so they
can't so we're taking whatever was in
that input which is zero
and adding 25 to it right and that's why
we see the alert of 25 it just happens
instantly it never gets a chance to put
something into
uh
that input now
there are a couple things here that
we've talked about in class but i want
to make sure we do it while we're
reviewing
i say document here
what the heck do i mean by document i'm
saying document query selector and then
value what the heck is document mean
yeah it means the dom the document
object model when we're in here like
when we're on our website and we use the
inspector
a lot of people see this and they go oh
this is just the html no
this is the rendering of our html files
and our css files remember
we were at the very very beginning we
talked today about like typing in
dominos.com and making a request to a
server and then domino's responding with
files
and our browser reading those files when
it reads those files
it just paints a picture
it takes those files and paints a
rendering of those files if i come in
here and i change this from like click
me
to
free
dominoes right like there and i hit
enter
they're they're not losing it i didn't
just hack dominoes right like there's
not somebody at domino's headquarters
freaking out that leon got him again
right
that didn't happen
we've just changed
the rendering that we see here
it doesn't actually affect the html
files it doesn't actually affect the css
files it just affects the rendering you
can think of like an artist they're
looking at their model and they're
painting the model that they see you
would never say that that painting was
the model it is the rendering of that
model same thing here in the browser the
browser reads your html reads your css
and paints
the model
right it paints the model
now the cool thing is javascript can
come along and mess with this model it
can add stuff it can remove stuff it can
it can do wild stuff to this rendering
and then once we refresh
all that stuff goes away right that's
the beauty of javascript javascript can
come in here and mess with that
rendering and we call that rendering the
dom or the document object model so
whenever you see
document what we're referring to is that
rendering of the html and the css that's
it so what we're saying is hey
look in that rendering
find something that's an input and grab
whatever value is in that input that's
what we're saying there
cool last one
create a variable that holds the h1
add an event listener so that the
element that console logs
the sum well hold on an event listener
to the element to that element oh that
console locks the sum of the previous
two variables cool
so we're going to create a variable that
holds the h1 this could be a cons the h1
is not going to change so we can say
const h1 equals and we'll do
document.queryselector
and we'll target the h1
and that's it so now the h1 like that
actual dom element is stored in the
variable h1 now we can add an event
listener to it
h1 dot add event listener we're going to
give it a click
and then we're going to say a function
that calls add to
nums now let me write this all out and
we're going to talk about it
function add to nums
beautiful here we go all right so here
is an event listener
what this event listener is
is it's going to listen for a specific
event
right
that specific event that it's going to
listen for in this case
is a
click
i like to think of these as smurfs what
we have done is we have found the h1
and we have placed a
smurf on it so let's go back and look at
the the dom here let's go ahead and look
uh let's let's refresh here
and let's look so here's this h1 of
clickme what we have done is we have
just put a smurf
that's just chilling
on that h1
right a smurf that's chilling on that h1
right
and
as soon as it sees that click
as soon as it sees that click it's gonna
go ayo
right it sees the click and it's gonna
go hey yo i heard the click right and as
soon as it hears the click
it's gonna run
this set of instructions called add to
nums
is smurf an acronym no i'm talking about
the little blue people that used to be
on television they're little smurfs
sitting on stuff right
and when it hears or sees that click
it tells this set of instructions to run
and this set of instructions is going to
do two things
it's going to console oh sorry it's
going to do one thing it's going to
console log
the addition of the previous two numbers
so that's going to be what was the first
variable num
plus
num from input
beautiful there we go so this smurf
is chilling
on this h1
chilling on this h1 just hanging out
relaxing all cool shooting some b-ball
outside of school a couple of guys they
were up to no good started making
trouble in their neighborhood they got
one little fight and their mama got
scared and they said you're moving with
your auntie and uncle in bel air
the cat pulled up there was dice in the
mirror
anyway home to bel air anyway so
we were
talking about this smurf it's chilling
on the h1 it's just sitting here on the
click me
right just
sitting on the click me it hears or sees
that click and it immediately says
it immediately says
run this set of instructions
and here are the set of instructions
don't worry about the function yet
here's the set of instructions
and the one thing it says to do is just
console log the sum of these two numbers
so let's see if this works
we go here we refresh the page
let's go to the console here and i'm
going to click on click me three
two one
boom
it worked
right it waited for the click the smurf
saw the click and told those sets of
instructions to run
and what we did is we added those two
numbers together
but
something weird happened what happened
here chat what happened what's the error
here notice that this number is like
purple and this one is white what
happened there
concat nation exactly concatenation
meaning that we took a number and we
added a string to it
that's what happened so if we go back
and look at our code
we can see that the value that we pull
from this input
what's the only thing that's going to be
inside that input remember that input we
grabbed the value from it instantly the
user never got a chance to put anything
into that input so what's actually in
that input before we add 25 to it
yeah it's a it's an empty string
so what we're actually doing here is
saying
empty string
right this equals empty string
boom that equals m
that equals empty string is the same
exact thing and then we add 25 to the
empty string which means when we get
down here we're going to be adding zero
to an to a string 25. so instead of
doing 0 plus 25 we're going to do 0 plus
string 25 which gives us a string
let me put that back
yeah because if we grow to grab the
value out of this input since it happens
instantly there's nothing inside this
input so what it grabs is actually an
empty string why that's just how
javascript works it's going to grab an
empty string out of that input we add 25
to that empty string whenever you add a
string to a number you get a string in
javascript it's one of the quirks so
what we wind up doing is trying to do a
number 0 plus a string 25 that's why we
see 0 25 it's a string
not a number
cool
now we can fix this
how can we fix this chat
type conversion yeah
yeah we could we could wrap this in
let's say
um
number
we can wrap this in number
right number
beautiful
let's save it
now let's try it again
all right
let's click
beautiful now we can see that it's blue
i'm sorry that purple again because that
they're both numbers there's no zero
being appended it's not a string anymore
it's now a number and so this number
right here is a set of instructions
that's built into javascript that can
take strings and give us the number
value and so when we wrap this in number
we don't ever get an empty string we
actually kind of just get like nothing
or zero in this case
yeah
why is it capitalized
you're going to see that there are some
rules
that when you are using
built-in stuff there are going to be
certain capitalization rules that we
follow
technically this is a built-in function
which we call a method but we're we're
still kind of far away from that we got
to get through objects first and once we
get to objects we'll understand better
why it's capitalized
yeah
why didn't we have to do that with num
well because num wasn't coming from an
input we actually just set it to 10 here
ourselves we subtracted 10 from it here
and then we console logged it at no
point do we turn num into a string it
was a number and it's always going to be
a number at least with the code we have
here
is string the opposite yes
yes it is the opposite
yup num is actually a number exactly
beautiful
all right let's keep pushing
we did the hard wonderful good job
everyone
we want to make decisions we eventually
want to be able to compare stuff we want
to be able to do stuff in certain cases
but not all cases but before we can
start making decisions using things like
conditionals we have to be able to make
comparisons
and so to make comparisons we have to
learn how javascript compares stuff to
other stuff
now
we're going through this at a pretty
good speed we spent four or five classes
on the stuff that we've covered so far
and so if any point of this javascript
is going too fast it's too much you can
always come back and watch our
individual classes on javascript this is
meant as a review and they give you like
a good overview so you can come back and
just focus on the things that give you
trouble beautiful so if we look here
9 does equal 9 in javascript because
they're both numbers and they both have
the same value
7 does not equal 3 because yes they're
both numbers but they don't have the
same value and joshua gets a little bit
weird because you can actually compare
strings to strings so this string hello
actually does equal the string hello
that would give us a true value
now
this is where some people get hung up
because when you are trying to compare
stuff in javascript there is a
difference between two equal signs and
three equal signs when i see two equal
signs what am i comparing it's just what
two equal signs is comparing just what
just value exactly two equal signs is
just value
three equal signs is what
your equal signs is value and
value and type exactly value and
type so
here we have
uh an assignment we have one equal sign
so one equal sign is always assignment
so we have a an x equaling three
all right
does three equal x in value because we
just see 2 equal signs so that's a value
does 3 equal 8 in value
no
3 and 8 are different values so that is
false
cool now this is where it gets tricky
is number three and listen up for a
second is number three equal to string
three in
value value first
is number three equal to string three in
value
yes
number three and string three are the
same in
value
now we since it's three equal signs we
have to go one step further is number
three equal to string three in
type
no
one is a number and one is a string so
this is not equal in number and type we
have three here
it's going to not be equal in number and
type it's equal in sorry value and type
it's equal in value but not equal in
type so we get a lovely boss
now is number three equal to number
three in both value and type yes
number three is equal to number three in
both value and types that would be true
here we get to see that bang syntax for
the first time all that means is not
equal so is 3 not equal to 8 in value
that is a true statement 3 does not
equal 8 in value beautiful last thing
here
does three
not equal string three in value and type
this is true this is true
because
three
does not equal string three
in type it does equal it in value right
so it doesn't equal it in value and type
it does equal to value but not value and
type so when you have that not equals
that is a true statement because number
three does not equal string three in
value and type only value not type so
that is a true
statement
beautiful
folkman said i want the red robin eight
and came back now and he's still going
i wish there was a not equal sign ah
it's the bang
i get what you mean though it is a
little confusing at first
alrighty
now that we know how to do
comparison we can introduce the second
of the big four
which are conditionals
conditionals enable us to check
if some condition is true inside the
parentheses
and if it is true
we do what is inside the curly braces
right we do what is inside the curly
braces so let's take a look at this
here we have
the kind of three things you'll see in a
conditional we have the if
if what is true inside these parentheses
is true we stop we do not continue we
just do what's inside the curly braces
and we are done
but if what is inside the if is not true
we move on to the else if
and we check what's inside those
parentheses
if it is true we do what's inside the
curly braces and we stop however if what
is in the if is false the else if is
false then the else
auto magically runs it does not need
it does not need a condition it's like a
default the default will just run if
every single statement above it was
false and the beautiful thing is
you can have as many
else if as you want so you can go if
else if else if else if else of elsif
and you don't actually have to have an
else you can leave it off if you don't
want a default case
alrighty
here's a good example
our pizza is a variable
and i use the const keyword here to cr
to declare this variable y
why do i use const here to declare this
variable
it never changes pizza will always be
dominoes it'll never be anything other
than dominoes and so since it's never
going to change we can use const
right so pizza equals dominoes we've
gone ahead and declared a space of
memory for pizza and we've assigned it
to value dominoes so if we know that
pizza is dominoes what gets printed to
the console
what gets printed to the console here
all aboard the train the flavor town
exactly so does pizza equal papa john's
hell no that's a false statement
we go into the elsif this pc gold
dominoes yes so since pizza equals
dominoes we stop
and we console log all aboard the train
the flavor town and then we're done we
do not continue
let's say for some reason we spelled
dominoes wrong and we had an e in here
right we spelled domino's wrong so
there's an e in there we would see that
pizza does not equal papa john's that
would be false
pizza in this case would not equal
domino's because we spelled it wrong and
then the else would auto magically run
and we would see princess the console
what are you even doing with your life
beautiful
alrighty
what's this danger that i speak of
assignment versus comparison
i got you gonzo
just for you
what's this danger i speak of
yeah
one equal sign versus two or
three
if i do one equal sign
i am going to reassign something inside
of my conditional which will probably
evaluate to true which is really weird
it's one of the quirks of javascript if
i was to
chop off these two things i would wind
up trying to set pizza equal to papa
john's
which would give me an error because my
variables of course a const of pizza and
it'll never change so if i if i dropped
these two equal signs it would try to do
reassignment that reassignment can't
happen because i have a const it would
be an error and a hot mess
so you always have to make sure when
you're doing comparison that you're
using two or three equal signs and not
one because one
is assignment
beautiful
now we can also do multiple conditions
right what happens if there's five equal
signs it's two three or one yeah
uh
actually something interesting will
happen if you have more equal signs but
i'll let you play around with that uh
multiple conditions right so we can we
can have and where both of these have to
be true
name has to be leon and
status has to be ballin and so if name
is leon and status is ballin
get a lovely wink
right because both of those were true
so since both of those were true
so if those are true we get the wink at
camera beautiful we can also do or
so if day equals sunday
or
sorry if they go saturday or day equals
sunday we know it's
the weekend right so we do what's inside
those curly braces it is the weekend
beautiful
alrighty
we have an age checker code to do here
so
uh if we go and look at our starter code
for today
we have age checker
and we have some javascripts in here
and there are some conditionals that i
want you to try
if you're under 16 i want it to
console.log they can't drive under 18
tell me they can't hate from outside the
club under 21 under 25 under 30 etc so
we're going to speed run this a little
bit
we're going to put
three minutes on the clock
three minutes on the clock on this one
try and get as many conditionals as you
can done if you're new look at the slide
see how the if and the lsifs are created
and have at it we're gonna go over it
together three minutes go for it
i've redone this exact page so many
times i'm ready let's go brooks if you
can get it done three minutes
uh my drinks changed all throughout this
right now i'm just drinking water cold
water
cold water helps the throat
but i was doing some vanilla chai
i had an energy drink at one point i had
some tea i had some coffee yeah it's
mixed through all out here
yeah i've tried myself try before yeah
this is the thing everyone is reviewing
why we speed running it because we've
already done this example like hundreds
of times a lot of folks have redone this
example like 30 times already because
that was your homework like three weeks
in a row was just to repeat everything
so
to be fair to folks that have done the
homework
and reviewed this and repeated this a
bazillion times i don't have to make
them sit here for the full five minutes
so they'll do the full three and then
we'll go over it together for folks that
are new
a minute left
we'll go over this and then we'll take
our break
for this one we'll take our break and
then when we come back from the break
we'll finish up our review on
we'll get to our
we'll finish up our conditionals then we
got to get to our loops
and we'll do some exercises that review
everything together
done speedrun hurt the thingies
all righty folks
let's take a look at this together and
then we'll take our break
all right let me show the music here
already
if under 16 tell them they cannot drive
so first let's create a a a variable
called h so we'll say let age
uh equal and we'll just set it off
something at like 25 i think that's what
we did before
and then let's start our first
conditional here actually i'm going to
come down to the bottom just do it all
here
if
age
is less than
we are going to console.log
we're going to log to the console
they
can not drive beautiful
next we're going to do our elsif so
we'll do elsif
and then inside of our elsif we're going
to check we're going to say all right
if age is less than 18
then we can console.log
and we'll say
i'm going to copy it they can't eat from
outside the club because they can't even
get in
beautiful
and we have some characters that we have
to escape here see how these strings are
breaking so we can use the backslash
that we learned earlier to escape the
the contractions there and we're good
let's do another else if
for the next age bracket which is 21
and they cannot drink so we'll say if
age is less than 21
and we will console.log
they can
not drink beautiful
then we'll do our next
notice how i'm always finishing out my
parentheses
and my curly braces and then going back
in that's way i don't ever forget them
some people forget to close the
parentheses forget to close their curly
braces and so i always want to make sure
that i i don't forget them so i type
them all out and then i come back so age
is less than 25.
we'll do our next console log
and this one is
they cannot rent cars affordably
beautiful
plug that in let's do our next elsif
and we'll say age is less than 30.
and this one will be
they cannot rent fancy cars affordably
beautiful
and then we have another one here
if
under over 30
if under over 30 tell them there's
nothing left to look forward to
other than
100 devs there we go beautiful so we'll
do our our last else if here
and we'll say if
age is
less than 30
well we already kind of got that
controlled
and we'll say and
age is greater than 30
and we'll do our console log
and we'll say
there's nothing left to look forward to
other than 100 devs all right there we
go
i'm in my 30s by the way i always feel
like i have to say that for this one
alrighty let's save it
and there we go so we had something
weird it says under over 30 so as long
as it's not 30
right and so here i'm saying if it's
less than 30 and over 30 then i'll then
i'll console log that but this actually
precludes them from being 30. so we
could just have an else here and that
else will capture anything if they're 30
right because if they're under 30 we got
it if they're over 30 we got it and all
the other ones are taken care of right
so we can just say
the else and the else will grab if
they're 30.
and we'll just say
i don't know
something cool
right but the idea here is that you
don't ever need an else it's just a
default if everything else is not true
oh yeah not n or
yeah not and or so if they're less than
30 or over 30 right less than or
over
but not actually 30. so the else would
grab if they're actually 30. everything
else is handled for the less ends and
over then
yeah thank you for the engagement
how can you be under 30 and over 30
interesting question maybe straddling a
time zone
there you go
still got it
alrighty
let's go ahead and save this that way we
have it you'll have this in the
you'll have this in the
uh
in the code that i shared to discord
after class so you don't worry about
frantically copying you'll always have
it
for the harder click on the h1 which we
just did take the value from the input
we just did that place the result in the
conditional in the paragraph
uh so we we basically just did these two
parts the only thing that we would do
differently
is
instead of it being age like this it
would be document
dot query selector
um
like your input
dot value and of course we would wrap
this in number so we literally just did
this so you could combine the previous
one we just did with this one and it
would work right so now we have number
coming out of the value you put this
inside of a click event and then it'll
work with uh these conditional down here
so grab all this put it in your your
click event and you're good to go
all righty we're at the top of the hour
so let's take our break
uh after this
five minute break we'll come back we're
gonna get into functions and then loops
and that's where we'll call it today
folks so let's go and put five minutes
on the clock
if you're able please get up move around
hydrate kiss some babies look at
something that's in the distance and
we'll be back together in five short
minutes all right folks see you soon
alrighty folks welcome back welcome back
the harder problem is exactly the same
one that we just did it's exactly the
same code so if you look at the past one
you can just reuse the code for that one
it's literally the same problem
alrighty
let's take a peek at it because folks
want to see it
so on the click of the h1
right so
let's go ahead and do our event listener
document.queryselector
h1
add event listener so kind of exactly
what we just saw in the last problem
we'll call this um
age check
cool then we'll have a function called
and inside of that we'll get the value
out of the input which we did here
yoink
excuse me
and then we'll do our conditional logic
yoink
boom and that's it
oh place the result the conditional in
the paragraph that's the only thing
that's different so instead of console
logging
you would uh document
we might actually make a variable for
this
we might do
uh document
let's say let p equal document
dot query selector
paragraph
right so now this p
is holding the paragraph so we don't
have to keep typing document over and
over again so we'll just do p
dot inner
text
equals and then that string and then we
would do this for all of them so we
would just do this over and over again
p dot inner
text equals
and so you just go through and do it for
all of them i won't repeat it but that
that's the idea go through that's it
cool
alrighty
let's talk about functions folks
talk about functions
oh actually let's do a few questions
from the
slido before we jump into our functions
uh
what do you put in your anki for code
you put a code snippet and guess the
output or do you try to understand the
purpose of an object element of a
language
i put code examples i don't actually use
like fill in the blanks or anything like
that
i'll have some that are descriptive like
what is a function and the other card is
a function uh i'll have one that's like
like from like an example from today i
would say
declare and assign a variable and then
the other side will be like let age
equal 25 so i do a mix of like
actual
vocabulary and code examples but i don't
really do like fill in the blanks or
anything like that
how do i locate the people in companies
i'm interested in working in
uh linkedin angellist
their actual website
if you watch our how to get a job class
we talk through how to do those to do
those things
uh my plan is to keep pushing through js
but what can i do to build confidence
and catch up uh is it ketchup crew is
exactly ketchup crew join the ketchup
crew find a group of supportive folks
that are going through the material at
the same pace that you are and make sure
that you kind of just keep in touch with
that community
always ask for help on discord and
you'll get through it as well
all right let's uh let's keep pushing
here folks
all right
let's see
what is
what are functions
yeah the music's a bit loud for some so
here's the thing it's weird
for some folks i've asked for like audio
samples from a bunch of different people
uh
for for some folks it it's super loud
for some folks it's not um for some
folks the sound alerts are some they can
barely hear it and so it's something
that i think i'm ever gonna truly be
able to figure out for everyone um
because i've even asked for audio
samples from different people yeah like
some people are saying can barely hear
it right so i think it's different for
each person but
you know
i'll keep playing with it but it's funny
because you'll see some people saying
it's like deafening and some people are
saying we barely hear it
yeah it's off now
all right what are functions
functions are simply
simply sets of instructions
functions are simply instead of just
it's weird right i play music every
single break there's music playing
uh and so it's odd that people can't
hear the music so here's music playing
now
right
it's very faint but you can turn it up a
little bit bring it down a little bit
yeah so normally it's a little bit it's
a little bit lower than that yeah
but it's uh it's funny because some
people say it's like deafening and some
people say like oh no i hear it's
crystal clear
that's the music
all right
functions are simple sets of
instructions
the idea of functions is that they are
reusable
right the idea is that you can write a
set of instructions once and then reuse
those instructions over and over again
so the idea here is that we write out
our simple sets of instructions
and we can use those as building blocks
to build up the rest of our program and
eventually we'll get to a best practice
where like really our functions are
doing one thing but don't worry about
that for right now
functions have a very specific
syntax right a very specific syntax that
syntax
without syntax sorry with the syntax we
have a very specific
way that we write our functions here we
have a function declaration which is the
same thing as a variable declaration
we're putting these sets of instructions
in to memory right so that our program
remembers those sets of instructions and
can re-use them
right can reuse those sets of
instructions
but to use those sets of instructions to
actually get them to run
you have to call
your function without calling the
function you will not
you will not get that set of
instructions to run
now
when you call a function you can pass in
arguments the way i remember this i have
a healthy relationship with my mother
but i like to say when i call my mom
it's to argue i'm gonna pass in
arguments whenever i call
call is just a fancy word for saying i
want that function that's in memory to
run
all right so here's an example
here of a function declaration it's my
set of instructions and this set of
instructions does one thing it alerts
something
and the beautiful thing is here i am
calling
the set of instructions and i am passing
in the value of string hello
so string hello
falls into word
wherever i see word
it is actually string
hello
we call
this thing that we're passing into our
function call an argument we call to
argue so hello is an argument
now in our function declare declaration
are
variables or buckets that can hold those
values and so these buckets that are
built into our function declaration we
call
parameters so here we have one parameter
and that parameter is word hello falls
into word and wherever i see word it's
actually string hello so when i call
this function yell
this set of instructions runs it takes
in hello and wherever i see word it's
actually hello so this would alert hello
in the browser
here we have another function
declaration but this function
declaration has two what chat what are
these
this function declaration is two what
yeah has two parameters exactly word in
other word
and this function call
as to what
this function call has to what
two arguments exactly remember when we
call we argue when we call we argue so
two arguments now
hello
slides into word wherever i see word
it's actually
hello
and goodbye
slides into other word wherever i see
other word it's actually
goodbye
so this function would do two things it
would alert hello and then it would
alert goodbye
beautiful
let's uh code some simple
functions so if
we go to our starter code from today
we have a
practice here called
what i actually call here simple
functions
and if you go ahead and open that simple
functions you'll see some javascript
that gives us a few functions to work
through some easy some medium and some
hard so i'm gonna put
four minutes on the clock here see how
far you can get in those four minutes
i'll bring the music up that's been
playing this whole time it's hilarious
that you'll be able to hear the music
i'll bring these up a little bit half
four minutes
look
got this we're doing simple
simple functions simple functions
if you already have done this one a
bazillion times just jump right to the
heart
i'll work on the on them
it's just weird to me that some people
can really hear it though some people
actually complain about the music being
too loud
that's so wild that some people hear it
really really loud and some people
barely hear it that blows my mind
they lying
i don't think so i people people have
sent me different clips and i can hear
it in some of them
mobile versus laptop maybe
it's louder if i change my headphones to
mic input interesting
um
i'll keep playing with it that's weird
see a lot of people saying different
things some say it's low some say it's
high
say it's different setups that's
interesting
never hear music during class unless the
timer is running that's the only time i
play music is when you're working on
stuff i have music in the background so
that's the only time that you would
actually hear music is when we're like
working on stuff or taking a break
it's so weird look at other people in
chat saying different things
ah i'm going to look into it more
yup it's always like lo-fi playing
when i have headphones plugged in i hear
music
but on if we're on bluetooth i never
hear it
crispy what do you think that could be
crispy i know you're here and you do
music stuff do you think there's like
maybe different like
outputs or something
i don't know that's weird
i'll try and figure it out all right
folks let's go over it together
alrighty
let's create a function that subtracts
two numbers and alerts
the difference
create a function that subtracts two
numbers and alerts
the difference
all right so function
sub 2
and alert that's a good name for that
function uh since we're going to we're
going to subtract two numbers we know we
need two numbers so we need two what
we need to what
we're gonna subtract two numbers we need
two what in here yeah two parameters
beautiful so i'm gonna call this num1
and num2 but you can call your
parameters whatever we want we could
call this robot and unicorn it would
work exactly the same
and then we're going to alert the
difference so i could alert
num1 minus num2 that would work
perfectly fine uh sometimes i like to
make it a little bit more readable and i
would do something like uh
like a let num
let uh difference
equal num1 minus num2 just to have like
on a separate line and then i could
alert the difference
beautiful and then we could call this
function sub 2 and alert and we could
pass in two numbers like 10 and
10 and 5.
beautiful now ten and five are my what
robot unicorn attack was an amazing game
yes
yeah ten to five for my arguments
exactly beautiful so sub tune alert ten
and 5 are my arguments uh 10 goes into
num1 5 goes into num2 we wind up doing
10 minus 5. so we should alert it five
beautiful
create a function that divides three
numbers and console logs the quotient
division numbers in in console logs the
quotient so let's go and create a
function
called uh divide
3 and log beautiful
and we can pass in n1 and 2 and 3
and we're going to console.log the
quotient i'm not going to do in two
steps this time i'm just going to do it
all in one line
and we'll do n1 divided by n2 divided by
n3 beautiful
we're gonna take in them all let's call
it
divide three and log and we can pass in
like 12.
let's do
let's do four and three there we go
so we do 12 divided by 4 which should
give us 3 3 divided by 3 would give us
1.
all right
another one here create a function that
multiplies three numbers and returns the
product
function
multi
three
and
return
beautiful and we're going to multiply
three numbers so we need three numbers
i'm gonna do n one and two and n three
again right
crispy said different speakers emphasize
different frequencies and eq'ing could
also play a part in that subjective
also play a big part in it too i
personally think your levels are fine
i've listened to your class on
everything from cheap headphones tv
speakers nice audiophile devices
interesting that's so weird then
i trust crispy nugget they've been doing
a lot of audio stuff for us lots of fun
things yeah that's that's weird that
folks have such a different experience
all right
we take in three numbers and we're gonna
return the product so let's do return
and we'll do n one
times n two times n
three now remember what does return do
what does return do in our code here
it returns the value but where does it
return it to
where does it return the value to
it returns it to where it was
called exactly returns it to where it
was called so right now
is this function being called
no
so let's call it
multiply three and return let's pass in
uh one two and three right
and
what happens here so we're gonna call
this function
it's gonna pass in one two and three so
we'll do one times two times three which
will give us six
is going to return six
and it's gonna get six and it's gonna
return six to here
and what happens when this returns six
what happens to it
yeah blue mango got it it's going to
disappear
it's going to poof in the thin air i
haven't stored it anywhere i haven't
console logged it i haven't alerted so
it's going to get returned to that
location and then
poof disappear so i could do something
like storing it in a variable i could
say like let um
returned
num equal right and then down here i
could do whatever the heck i want it
with it i could let's say
uh console log it
all right i could console.log returned
num beautiful and now that'll spit out
to the console right it'll spit out to
the console
uh the returned value because
we called it here
so we call it the value gets returned to
here so six gets returned to there so
return num now equals six and then i
will console.log return num which is
equal to
six
cool so return to spits it out to
wherever it's called so if we
call it here
this is where it's going to get returned
to so it's as though this line does not
exist and so we just plug six in there
assigning the variable to six
beautiful
alrighty
medium
create a function that takes in three
numbers
add the first numbers and return the
remainder of dividing the sum of the
first two numbers by the third all right
so let's create a function
function
sum
and
remainder
beautiful we need three numbers so i'm
going to just do my num1
n1 and 2 and 3 again
beautiful
and we're going to do with it we're
going to
return we'll use our return keyword
and we're going to add the first two
numbers i'm going to use parentheses
just to make sure that order of
operations is at play in the right way
here so we're going to add the first two
numbers and then get the remainder
of by dividing in the third number so
we'll do n
three so order of operations please
excuse my dear on sally or whatever your
your your go to lingo is
uh just make sure we do the addition
first before we try and get the
remainder once again we would return it
i'm not going to call it it would kind
of get the the hang of it here
does it matter if there are two
different functions with n1 n2 and n3 no
no because they only the parameters only
exist inside that function
right they only exist inside this
function so this n1 n2 and n3 are
completely different than this n1 n2 and
n3 right they're completely different
they're inside their own eventually
we'll call it scope you might have heard
block scope things like that
we'll get to scope later on in the
course
hard
creative function that takes in four
numbers multiply the first two numbers
if the product is greater than 100 add
the last two numbers and console log the
value if the product is less than 100
subtract the difference of the last two
numbers and console log the value if the
product is a hundred multiply the first
three numbers together and alert the
remainder by dividing the fourth number
i'll let you work on that one
i'll let you work on that one and i'll
post the solution in in our in our
discord um i'll let you work on that we
don't need to spend time on this one
right now
that's too much that's too much math to
be almost nine hours in
that's too much math for us right now
alrighty now
before we get into
more complex code
there's something really important
whenever i attempt to write code
i
really don't
sit down and immediately start writing
javascript
i sit down and i write pseudocode which
is plain english for how i am going to
solve my coding challenge so i'm not
just writing out mean javascript right
away
i am writing out my pseudo code which
for me is just plain english here's what
my program is going to do then it's
going to do this then it's going to do
this then it's going to do this and so i
think a lot of folks get into hot water
early on especially when we get to
coding challenges next week because they
just want to jump right into
i just want to jump right into the
javascripts right instead of jumping
right into the javascript actually think
through what you want your program to do
writing out that plain english
pseudocode can be really really
impactful because not only does it
become like your comments it'll guide
your code but you do the heavy lifting
first you take out of your brain the the
logic and then you can kind of just go
and cherry pick from examples the things
that you need your code to do so if you
need your code to be an event listener
you can go and grab that if you need the
ability to grab something from the dom
you can go and grab that you need to
grab a value from the input you can go
and do that and so if you write out your
pseudo code first you can go back
through all the examples we've done in
class and just cherry pick the code that
you need if you can't think of it on the
spot and that's why i asked you all to
code and recode so
much because i want those examples to be
fresh in your brain so when you write
your pseudo code you can then use the
examples that you've drilled and put
into anki and the puzzles just come
together so by using anki and pseudo
code together you become unstoppable
your code snippet should be an anki your
pseudo code should be written for
everything that you do and you'll
realize that you'll just kind of unlock
some ability that you didn't know was
there in your brain
alrighty so we have this idea of coding
a temperature converter so let's go
ahead and open up that starter code here
so we have temperature converter
and i want you to convert
a value right if we look in the
index.html there's actually nothing here
in the index.html but what i want you to
do is to
write a temperature converter something
that would take in
a celsius value and convert it to
fahrenheit
celsius to fahrenheit
okay
celsius to fahrenheit now if you're new
i just want you to write pseudocode
if you have drilled this a bazillion
times bang out your code
you have three minutes
so three minutes to get this done if
you're new just pseudo code if you've
already drilled this a billion times
write the actual code so you're trying
to convert something from celsius to
fahrenheit how the heck would you do
that write out your steps in plain
pseudo code if you finish your
pseudocode try actual code good luck
three minutes on the clock
ciao i do
i study all the time i do anki and still
doesn't make sense to me ask good
questions and discord try and articulate
what doesn't make sense to you and let
somebody explain it in a way that might
unlock it for you so if you're putting
in the work you're doing the repetition
make sure that you're asking good
questions on discord so folks can
explain it in a slightly different way
and hopefully that helps you get over
those barriers
shout out everyone that's been here for
the whole stream exactly that's wild
today's class has been intense reviewing
loving it yeah it's a little much but
i'll be dreaming about this stuff in my
sleep tonight i do dream about coding
once in a while
i'm gonna re-watch an anki hey there we
go
30 seconds folks
nine hours wasn't planned in my google
calendar yeah i said i didn't know how
long it would go takes us what it takes
us
all right let's take a look at this
together folks come on back
all right
so i'm gonna write my pseudo code first
if i want to convert something to
fahrenheit well the first thing is i
need
i need the value
need the value
then i need to convert the value right
from
c to
f
and then i need to like show the value
to the user right so if i had no idea
how to do anything this is a really good
start i know how to get values out of
the dom or out of inputs because we've
done that already today the conversion i
might need to google and then showing
the value we've already done today as
well so like two out of the three we've
already done uh i think i might i might
wrap this in a function just to be like
a cool kid and maybe tie it to an event
listener so i might have like an event
listener
uh let's see so let's do
document.queryselector
and we'll just say
um when they click on the h1
we'll run the add event listener like
our smurf that's listening for the click
and when they hear the click
we will run the convert function there
we go and so then i'll just do function
convert
beautiful i'm going to bring this into
that function and there's nothing in my
html we'd have to go and add this stuff
to the html
i like the h1 that we're clicking and
things like that
but let's say we get the value from the
input so let's say
let's create a variable called let um
let
entered val
equal and then we'll go to the document
again
we'll use our query selector and we'll
look at the input
and we'll get the value from that input
beautiful so i'm going to get the value
from the input what's something that we
learned that i should do today if i'm
getting this value out of the input and
i'm expecting something specific
yeah just so we don't run into that
concatenation again
we want to make sure that we wrap this
in number
just to make sure that we're actually
dealing with a number here uh we don't
know if we'll run into it or not but
just i feel a bit better at the end of
the day
all right let's convert entered valve
from celsius to fahrenheit so we'll do
entered
well let's actually just do
let temp equal
and what's the conversion math for me
somebody give me the conversion math
in chat
what's the conversion you got for me
know there's an easy one i never
remember it
times 1 8 1.8 plus 32 all right so we'll
do
entered
val
times 1.8
plus
32 that's it
cool awesome
and then we're going to show the value
to the user so
we'll go to the document
we'll go to our query selector
and we'll go to let's say our
h2
and inside the h2 we'll use the inner
text
and we'll put inside of it whatever temp
is
beautiful so here we have our event
listener
it's listening for a click on the h1
whenever it hears the click it runs the
convert function
that convert function
grabs the number out of the input
make sure it's a number
stores that in the variable entered
value down here we create a new variable
called temp we do the conversion entered
value and then we pop that answer
into the dom by selecting the h2 putting
some text inside that h2 and that text
is the converted value boom let's go
turn up
it gives me hype gets me going
now of course you're gonna have to go
and add
you're gonna have to add the uh the the
h1 the h2 and the input
occ what's up hey thank you for the
gifted subs i appreciate that
hope you're doing well thank you for
being here you've been with us for for
the whole time almost
i think so like the whole time indeed so
i appreciate you thank you for being
here and thank you for the gifted subs
a lot of folks got gifted subs today
you got a gifted sub today you gotta
flex those emotes you gotta gift the sub
today flex those emotes i think we're up
to like i think it's wow i think it's
like 40 50 gifted subs today flex those
emotes give me those micro leons
whatever you feel like spamming we go
get whatever you got
a couple more streams like this and leo
have to start worrying about only fans
yup
start doing a few yolos here and there
it's gonna get it's gonna get wild real
quick
honda civic hey thank you for the fight
get the subs as well i appreciate you
thank you for being here
all right let's save this up so folks
have it when they go back to discord
and let's
move on to the next example
all right y'all are willing thank you hi
love thank you so much for the gifted
subs i appreciate you thank you for
being here
alrighty chat what is the best tv show
of all
time answer please
beautiful beautiful
cinder
cinders vta thank you for that give this
subs i appreciate you thank you so much
thanks for being here all right
it's of course the bachelor thank you
for everyone getting the question right
occ honda tyler cinders appreciate y'all
thank you
all right the answer is the bachelor and
that enables us to move into our
bachelor code
i'm not going to have you all
spend time on these
i'm going to walk through them just so
we can see them
i'm just going to just walk through so
so i'm going to close this out
and i'm going to open up bachelor code
and in the bachelor code
we have one two and three so let's take
a look at number one
and if we look at the html we got some
stuff going on here so let's go ahead
and open this in the browser
all right so here we have
claire nikki and charlene all
contestants on juan pablo season of the
bachelor probably the most [__] one of
the most controversial seasons of the
bachelor of all time uh mainly because
juan pablo got to the end and did not
propose to the lovely uh nikki so what i
want to have happen is when you click on
final rows i want claire and
unfortunately charlene to disappear
and for us to only see
nikki let's go and take a look at this
code we can see that
the thing that we are clicking on has
the idea final rows
right the idea of final rows and then
the images down here have the ids id of
clear id of nikki id of char
lean and so if we go here and look at
our javascripts here we have to start
our event listener so we can see we have
a function down here
and we want this set of instructions to
run
when there is a click on whatever has
the idea final rows if we look that h1
has the idea final rule so when we click
on this we want this set of instructions
to run so we're going to go ahead and
put those set of instructions in here
it's going to say run the hide
instructions when you hear that click
beautiful
now we know we want it clear and
charlene to disappear
so if we look
claire and charlene
both have an id so we can use those ids
claire and charlene so we'll come in
here we'll select
claire using the id so we need the
octoforp
and we'll
unfortunately select charlene
and we'll use the id again
using the octoforp
and there we go so what should happen
now
is when we click on final rows
we should run the set of instructions
hide
right run the set of instructions hide
get timed out cool
uh run these set of instructions hide
and then
claire and charlene will both be hidden
meaning they'll set the style to display
none meaning that they will no longer be
there in the dom that rendering of the
dom right
beautiful so let's go and take a look at
this
let's refresh
let's click on final rows
and there we go claire and charlene both
hid
and now we just have nikki left
beautiful
i agree with the guy that got timed out
all right there you go join them welcome
hope you have some fun together
beautiful
okay there we go
get got
beautiful
so there we go we have the final rows uh
both claire and charlene
disappeared just like our two friends
that don't like the bachelor and just
lovely nikki is left
all right let's take a look at the next
one here
and of course remember we did this for a
whole class so we're gonna go through
this one a little bit faster just
because we've seen a lot of this stuff
already tonight uh but if you go and if
you go through our javascript classes
you'll see this at a much lower pace we
spend more time going over this stuff
alrighty
all right this one's a little bit more
complex let's open up the html
already
so here we go we have andy clare and
charlene now
andy
became the next bachelorette it clearly
should have been charlene
but unfortunately andy became the next
bachelorette uh district attorney
assistant district attorney from atlanta
but i want that power to be in your
hands right i want that power to be in
your hands i want for you to click on
andy
and for their image to show
if you were to click on claire and want
their image to show if you were to click
on charlene i would want their image to
show and so the idea here is if i click
on andy the others two should disappear
and only andy should show if i click
again andy should disappear and so the
idea is i won't be able to click on
these names and see the different
individuals appear and disappear
all right
let's go and take a look
let's take a look at this stuff here
it's all jokes folks it's all jokes
alrighty so we have document query
selector andy document query selector
claire document query selector charlene
what the heck am i doing here with these
three
why why am i doing this what am i what
am i saving myself from here with these
first three lines
saving my fingers exactly i'm saving
time from typing so instead of having to
constantly type out
document.queryselectorandy
i can just store that in andy wherever i
see andy it's now this whole
document.queryselector if we look at the
html
we can see
that these images have the id of andy
charlene and claire
and the actual things we click on have a
slightly different ids andy next
clarinets and charlene next so instead
of having to constantly grab the images
i just grab them once
and i store them in these variables it
saves me from having to repeat that
document that query selector over and
over and over and over again
beautiful
so
if i click on andy next i want a certain
set of instructions to run and if we
look down here here's my andy next set
of instructions and so this is just
going gonna be called andy
next beautiful
now
whenever i click on andy next i want
something very specific to happen
i want claire
to
disappear and if we look
why are none of their images showing up
by default like if we look at this page
their images are not here
why are their images not showing up on
the page by default
exactly they have that hidden class so
if we look at our css
we can see that they have that hidden
class which is making them display
none
so we can actually use this to our
advantage
we can
hide stuff by giving that class
and we can make it appear by removing
that class and that's what we get to
here with this set of code we're saying
all right if we just clicked on andy we
obviously want to see andy so let's make
sure that claire is hidden
by adding that class of hidden
so if claire already has the class it
doesn't really do anything but if claire
was visible we would add that hidden
class and they would disappear so that's
what that that that that adding is doing
we're saying look at claire
right remember document query selector
clear find claire look at all the
classes look at all the classes on
claire
and add
the hidden class
to claire
right same thing for charlene let's go
ahead and add the hidden class as well
and then on andy the one that we
actually want to be seen
we're going to not just add hidden we're
going to toggle hidden now toggle is
very interesting it's like a light
switch if the lights are on and you hit
the button
the lights go off
if the lights are off and you hit the
button
the lights come on
it's a toggle the lights are on you hit
the button
they go off
if the lights are off you hit the button
they come on
it's the same thing with
toggle
right it's the same thing with toggle so
the idea here is if andy already has
hidden it'll remove it
and if it does have if it doesn't have
hidden it'll add it that's the beauty of
toggle so if we save this and we
actually go look in the dom we'll see
what's actually up and happening so
let's go ahead i'm going to inspect on
andy next
and let's actually look at the images
down here
so right now
we can see that
claire andy and charlene all have the
hidden class so pay attention to these
classes here they're about to change
ready i'm gonna click on andy three two
one
oh did i refresh
there we go
i'm gonna come down here
three two one oh i forgot we didn't
comment out the other code let's go and
comment the other code
it's really not liking all the other
stuff that we have here let's comment
that out
let's comment these out it was getting
too many errors because of all that
gibberish insert uh code here so
let's save that let's go back
let's give it a refresh
beautiful all right let's do our andy
next let's click
all right so when we click notice what
happened
claire
and charlene still have the hidden class
but
notice hidden is removed from andy andy
no longer has the hidden class it was
toggled off
if we click on andy again
we can see the hidden class come back
go away
come back
go away come back that's the beauty of
the toggle
and as you toggle since you're adding
and removing that class andy will appear
and disappear appear and disappear
and the beautiful thing is we have gone
ahead and added hidden to claire and
charlene
even though they already had hidden
we're just covering our bases because we
don't know if we're clicking somewhere
else and claire is visible if claire was
visible then we would want claire to
disappear so that andy could be
shown so we always just kind of we just
kind of hard coded the hidden on claire
and charlene just in case we had
originally clicked on there
we don't want to have to keep track of
like state and keep track of whether or
not those things have been clicked in
the past so every single time we click
on andy we hide the other two and show
andy no matter what
all right let's see an example of that
let's let's let's um let's fix claire
and we'll leave the last one just to
save some time
all right so
clear next let's go ahead and call
next
beautiful
and clear next we will target
uh let's target andy
and we'll add the class hidden
beautiful let's target charlene
and then let's target claire
and we will toggle the class hidden
again
beautiful
now i
created these variables up here but if i
wasn't creating these variables i would
wind up having to be typing this out
every single time so this is what it
would look like without the variable
document that query selector andy every
single time i'd be doing that over and
over and over again so to save me some
time i created that variable
beautiful
all right let's go back and look in the
dom
let's refresh
let's look at these uh images
so i'm going to click on claire
did i not save let's see oh i forgot to
nope everything's commented out
save let's make sure i refresh
all right let's look at the error that's
in the console
claire is not defined well it's a good
error what happened
player is not define what happened
it doesn't like it says line 18 it does
not like line 18. let's go look at line
18.
line 18 is not like clear it's not
defined that means we don't have a
variable named clear but wait a minute
let's go up and look oh
we forgot the i so since it's missing
the i
doesn't work we get that undefined
there's no variable with that name
come back and refresh
let's click on let's go back to elements
so we can see the images
and let's click on clear
great so we can see that andy and
charlene keep the hidden class
but the hidden is removed from claire
now here's where it gets fun because now
i'm going to click on andy three two one
we saw that claire got the hidden class
but andy had the hidden class toggled
off so that's the cool thing we can jump
between contestants now
because we set it up so that as we click
on the contestant uh the other two get
hidden beautiful and the other thing
that we can do here is we can actually
toggle claire off as well boom claire
disappears
because
we have that toggle on the hidden so we
toggle it off toggle it on top it off
toggle it on and so we can actually jump
between people and even toggle those
individuals
off
beautiful
i can see clearly no hey glad you're
doing it like i said we went through
these ones in detail uh during class so
if you need to see a little bit slower
definitely watch our class on this one
all right we have one more here that i'm
just going to talk through and then
we're going to
take our break at the top of the hour
so number three here
all right this one gets a little wild
little wild
so if we look at the html
we have two contestants
we have claire and we have nikki
they both have the class of contestant
right we both have the class
of contestant
however one also has the class of rose
which is nikki because nikki indeed had
the final rows beautiful so what we want
to do
is if
if
the contestant has rows we want to let's
go back and take a look if the
contestant has a rose we want to show
their image which would be showing
nikki's image but if the user is to
click on claire which does not have a
rose then we would alert wrong and
there's some special stuff in here that
i want you to see
so we're going to talk through it so we
can select all the contestants and use
the class contestant
beautiful we got to use the dot don't
forget because we're selecting all the
contestants that have the class
contestant and the beautiful thing is
this query selector all this enables us
to select all of the elements that have
the class contestant
then here what we are doing is a special
kind of built-in loop and what we are
doing is we are adding an event listener
to every single thing that was inside of
contestants so
all of the contestants every person that
had the class contestant is now going to
get this event listener we loop through
all the dom elements and we add the
event listener now i don't need you that
to make sense right now but we're going
to get to a raise in the coming week or
so
and then when we get to arrays this will
make more sense
what's happening here is we basically
have a list of all the contestants
we're looping through that list of
contestants and adding an event listener
to each one and that event listener is
going to call the function
check for
rows so what we just did is we added a
smurf
to claire
and to nikki because they both have the
class of contestant
beautiful
so
now each of those words each of those
contestants have the click event and so
what we're going to do is we're going to
click on one of those contestants
we're going to say hey
the contestant we just clicked on that's
the target the one we just clicked on
check its classes if its classes
contains
rows
if it contains rows
we know that we clicked on nikki and we
should toggle the hidden class on nikki
if the contestant we clicked on right if
we clicked on it and it does not contain
rows like if this is false this will not
run
and the else will automatically run and
we'll see the alert of wrong so in this
case if the thing we clicked on has rose
we know we clicked on nikki we show
nikki's image but if it does not have
rows we know we clicked on claire and we
alert
wrong
beautiful
and so we save all that let's see if
it's running
you click on claire
this is the wrong one i haven't even
opened up the right code
here we go
beautiful click on claire we get wrong
because claire did not have the class of
rose we click on nikki we see their
lovely photo
beautiful
alrighty folks we're at the top of the
hour when we come back from our break
we're hitting the home stretch which is
loops we're going to finish up our loops
we will do a review that reviews all the
javascript and we'll call it for today
so top of the hour let's take our five
minute breaks and then we should finish
up shortly
alright five minutes on the clock here
please if you're able get up move around
hydrate it's been a long session so
please take care of yourselves five
minutes
you got this
cn5 i'm gonna run some ads
goldfish grew legs and took me for a
walk a
alrighty
about a minute left folks
how do you feel about taking crypto as a
form of payment uh well the cool thing
is that there are a lot of like the
major
like the major
payment processors also do crypto stripe
i believe still does crypto
i think they should just rolled out like
new stuff for crypto as well
i mean i wouldn't personally do it
um but i know a lot of companies are
interested in it yeah
well i'm just waiting until i'm done
i'm weird like that i don't know why
what should we say if someone approaches
us for an interview and we don't know
the framework required yet it's going to
happen pretty much for every job that
you apply to you're not going to know
all the tools that they use that's
impossible
if you're really interested in the job
maybe do a quick tutorial over the
weekend before your interview just to
show that you can work with it but
that's about it
alrighty all right let's finish this up
strong folks welcome back welcome back
this will be our our last
last minutes together today we'll back
at it on tuesday though don't worry
all right let's talk about loops
what are
loops
loops are a way to repeat an action some
number of times so if you want to do
something and do it again then do it
again to do it again
right that's what loops are for there
are three main kinds of loops in
javascript for while and do while and
they off they all just kind of offer a
different way to like start and stop
your loop that's about it
uh we actually know that there are more
than this just those three types of
loops because we just saw one we just
saw this lovely like four each which is
a method built into javascript that
enables us to loop through stuff so
there are more than just the four while
and do while but those are the first
three that we'll kind of emphasize in
class together
for loops
kind of break down having three key
things
the count
when we stop counting and how we
increment that count they all have very
specific words like initial expression
condition expression increment uh but i
just like to look at them as like hey
this is the thing we're counting by
this is when we stop counting and this
is how much our count goes up by each
time we're done doing something so if we
were to let this for loop run
what we would wind up having is the very
first time this runs
i is equal to one so we're gonna check
is one
less than five since that is true
we're gonna do what's inside the curly
braces and we would cancel log
one
slaggy a thank you for the slaggy 90
thank you so much for the gifted subs
thank you for being here
all right so we'll do the we'll do the
one
then we're going to add one to our
counter so i would now become two
is two less than five yes that is a true
statement so we do what's inside the
curly braces and we cancel log two
then we go up by one so now i is three
is three less than five yes that is a
true statement
we do what is inside the curly braces
and we print three to the console then
our i goes up by one is four less than
five yes that is a true statement so we
do what's inside the curly braces and we
cancel log four
then
we add one to i and now we're at five
is five less than five
no that is a false statement so we are
done five is not less than five it is
equal but it's not less than so we stop
and so this for loop would wind up
printing
one through
four
beautiful
righteous james dan thank you so much
for the gift of subs thank you for being
here
cool
so it just stops uh if i wanted this to
print out five what could i change like
if i wanted to do one through five what
could i change about this for loop so
that would also get the number five
yeah the equal sign exactly we could do
an equal sign
equals five beautiful
so now that would go all the way up to
five and once i was five we would say is
five less than or equal to five that
would be true
so then we would console log five
we'd wind up adding one to i and then
it'd be six is six less than or equal to
five no that's a false statement it's
actually greater so then we would stop
beautiful
alrighty
let's take a look at our 21 savage loop
21 21 21.
if we look at our starter code
we have 21 savage loop here so in our
sir savage the 21st
we have some javascripts
and i want you to create a function that
has a loop
that prints 21 times the console and
then call that function uh bonus if you
can print 21 21 times to the dom
so i'm going to give folks i want you to
practice your for loop we just saw it on
the slides i'm just going to put two
minutes on the timer here
practice your for loop
see if you can get this running then
we're going to go over it together
two minutes on the clock go as quickly
as you can and we're going to go over it
together
is this the last topic yeah this will be
our last one we're gonna do a review of
kind of everything real quick and then
we'll we'll do a raid and call it a day
how to negotiate ballpark budget is too
low sometimes you just gotta walk away
sometimes they just don't have the
budget for you that's okay just point
them to somebody else that might be able
to do their their uh their budget
is about to eat dinner and sleep until
class tuesday no my resilient coders
cohort starts tomorrow i'm super excited
new cohort starts tomorrow
moogle hey thank you for the tier three
i appreciate
that about 30 seconds left
all right come on back folks come on
back
alrighty
let's create a function that prints 21
21 times to the console and then call
that function
so we're going to call this
console
or let's call it console21 sorry i don't
like don't start with uh variables i
start variables with our function names
with the numbers
so we'll call this
console 21
cool
and we're going to print this 21 times
to the console so let's create a let's
create a for loop in here
and in that for loop let's start our i
equaling to one
and then we'll go while i is less than
or equal to 21 and then we'll go up by
one each time and every single time we
do this we will console log
the console beautiful
and then let's go ahead and call this
console
21 beautiful
and that should be good well i is less
than or equal to 21 make sure we have an
infinite loop looks good let's save
let's go ahead and open this in the
browser
all right let's open up our inspector
let's look at the console and there we
go 21 21 times to
the
console let's see if we can do the
second step here
which is the make it print 21 times to
the dom so let's comment out our console
log here and
do we have a place we can put it in the
dom yeah we have this id that says
savage says
let's put it in that h2 there's only one
h2 i'm just going to use the h2 instead
of the id
let's go ahead and do document
dot query selector
and we're going to grab that h2 just
like we've been doing all night all day
and
we're going to put inside of there
21.
now if we just did this
what it's going to do
is it's just going to put 21
over and over and over again but we're
not going to see it like add it it's
just going to say 21. so let's actually
save this and see it we know that that
loop runs 21 times but at the end we
just see 21 here right we just see 21
here at the end it's because we haven't
like actually concatenated it we just
did something 21 times so let's go ahead
and make sure we're actually doing some
concatenation here so instead of doing
the equal we're just going to do plus
equals so we're going to keep adding 21
each time i'm going to put a space in
between each one
and i'm going to save it
and
now when we refresh
we'll see 21 21 times to the dom
beautiful
all right
well done everyone it's a good one
alrighty we also have other types of
loops while and do while but we'll see
those next week
all right one last
challenge and then we'll end the evening
folks it's the bring it on challenge so
let's let's finish strong please
so i'm going to go ahead and show you
the challenge let's bring it on
we got some javascript to practice here
some variables some functions some
conditionals some loops let's put five
minutes on the timer give it your all
try and recall all the things we did
tonight if you need help go back and
look at the other examples look at the
slides
let's do this let's go through it
together don't leave now you've been
here the whole time
finish strong
then we'll do a raid get those sweet
sweet channel points and we'll end it
here
five minutes on the clock folks you got
this
[Music]
do
got this folks four minutes left
my brain left the house eh
went go-karting last night now you have
a headache from getting rammed into
it's not a concussion
bird laws
hey
i'm well versed in bird laws actually
thank you so much for the gift it subs
thank you for being here
how do we set up the plus sequels in the
savage loop again i'll show it while
folks are working on it
more hey thank you for the for the
thousand bits appreciate you
here it was
it's just the plus equals here that's
all that's all the secret is to it plus
equals
birds aren't real yeah
just some light whiplash
would you feel better though
we're working on the bring it on again
two minutes 22 seconds left you got this
folks
[Music]
do
yeah where are we at what's our uptime i
even know
9 21. let's go turn up
nine plus hours let's go
we should just go for ten
sam squared no worries this was a this
is a quick overview we got
18 classes for you locked and loaded on
youtube exclamation point youtube we got
a catch-up crew on discord so you can go
at your own pace and get caught up
i really think we have an 11 hour one
somewhere i don't know why i think that
i know we had a niner i think there was
an 11 too
maybe we broke that up in the 2 and it
equaled 11 but yeah this is up there for
sure
just play wordle
it just turns into me playing pokemon
just to beat the long longest stream
no i need to eat
that's a good idea though
i've been going ham on the crosswords
i'd love a pictionary stream let's do it
well let's do a pictionary stream
all right 20 seconds folks this strong
hey turn up all right we're gonna make
it happen
chat is full of champs heck yeah they
are
we don't get god we go get
well i gotta say go get
became we got
came we saw we got
already folks
let's go ahead
and uh
do some variables here create a variable
and console.log the value
all right let's call this let
almost done
and set it equal to five
and then let's console log
almost
done beautiful
create a variable add 10 to it alert the
value
let
num
equal
and we're going to add 10 to it
num plus equals
and then alert
num
wonderful
create a function that subtracts four
numbers and alerts the difference
function
sub four
and
alert
beautiful
and so let's go ahead and take in our
four numbers
and one and two and three and four
and then let's go ahead and alert the
difference we'll do an alert and we'll
do n one minus n 2 minus n 3 minus n
4. beautiful and we alert that
difference
let's just say to call it so we'll just
keep moving create a function that
divides one number by another and
returns the remainder so it's not going
to be
it's not going to be division what is it
going to be it's going to be what not
divide
not divide but what
modulus exactly
so
let's create a function
return
remainder beautiful
and then let's go ahead we need to take
in two numbers
do n one and two or actually you know
let's get funky with it zebra
unicorn beautiful just to show that it
doesn't have to be n1 or n2 some people
sometimes you'll get tripped up on that
and we'll return
uh zebra
modulus
unicorn beautiful zebra modulus unicorn
that'll be the remainder that we are
returning that should be good
conditionals
function that adds two numbers that the
sum is greater than 50 alerts jumanji so
we'll create a function
uh sum
greater than
50.
[Music]
let's go
let's take in two numbers
uh and one and two
let's add them together so let's say
let's sum
equal we could do it directly in the
conditional but it's a little bit neater
n1 plus n2 and then let's go and set up
our conditional we're going to say if
sum
is greater than 50 we can come in and
alert
jumanji
exactly beautiful
as two numbers the summer's green 50
alerts jumanji beautiful beautiful all
right
create a function
that multiplies through numbers and the
product is visible by three alert zebra
so let's go and create a function here
uh
multi three
and
alert
zebra not fully descripted there but
close enough let's pass in and one and
two and three
and one and two and three
uh multiplies three numbers let's going
to say let
product equal n1
times and two times and three
and if the product is divisible by three
so we can use modulus to check to see if
it's divisible by three
so if beautiful and say if
product
mod 3 equals 0 because if 3 goes evenly
into product and we get zero back as the
remainder so if that if both zero equals
zero we know that it was divisible by
three and we can go ahead and alert
zebra
beautiful all right we got a loop down
here
create a function
that takes in a word and a number
console log the word x times where x was
the number that's passed in so we'll
create a function called
log
word x
x times beautiful and we're going to
take in
word
and num
and we're going to set up a for loop in
here
and that for loop we're going to set let
i equal one
and while i is less than or equal to num
we're gonna keep doing our loop we'll
add
one to i each time and so this will go
from one all the way to our number and
each time that that runs we will
console.log
no opening will comes log the word
alrighty
that is
we out of the logs we carried them all
first try
let's go
easy
easy nine and a half hours easy nine and
a half hours let's go
alrighty folks
hope you got something out of the review
i hope you had a chance to see stuff or
another time
to
to to
to to have it wash over you again
right to make sure that you saw these
things and if you're brand new to us
welcome i know this was a lot it was a
lot to do in one sitting we've broken
all this stuff up into 18 different
classes that you can go back through on
youtube leonardo.com youtube look at the
cohort 2 playlist it's all there for you
uh if this was a review for you hope
things clicked maybe a little bit better
the second time and even though we've
done review not all these concepts
should be there yet remember it's a
marathon not a sprint it doesn't have to
click it doesn't have to be all there
for you that's okay we're gonna keep
trudging you're gonna keep putting in
more time more effort and things will
come with that time that you put in so
it was an absolute blast to have you all
for
for nine and a half hours together what
a day
i'll share all of this code on discord
in a few minutes afterwards so if you
want all the solutions we did today
those will all be dis on discord in just
a few minutes
uh where are we at let's see
we're over 1500 people so this will go
on youtube we have to wait the day
because we're partnered on twitch and
it'll go up on on youtube on on tuesday
uh so
we're there let's do a raid let's spread
some love and positivity around i know
we're all tired let's go let's give this
person some follows give them some love
say what's up we're going to dion saga
they're they're working on some
character creation it looks like they're
building some games let's go ahead let's
spread some love some positivity and
then have a wonderful rest of your day
rest of your night you deserve it thanks
for being champs thanks for being here
the whole time i'm gonna queue up the
raid
beautiful they're working on some game
development so i'll see you all over
there at the raid have a wonderful rest
of your day get some rest get some
hydration in i'll see you on tuesday we
got a lot more stuff to get into on
tuesday folks i'm excited lots of really
big news this week big news i'm super
excited to share the news on tuesday
i'll see you all in the raid peace
the rest of your day
you